name:
Lasagna rolls
ingredients:
Wavy lasagna: 9oz(250 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Yellow onions: ½cup(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Spinach: 9oz(250 g)- already washed
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1 ¼cup(350 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ½cup(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Mozzarella cheese: ⅔cup(70 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ⅓cup(10 g)- grated
Basil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
A good Sunday dish is one that brings family and friends together to enjoy a rich, tasty meal and one that also, in some cases, offers a nice, indulgent touch of abundance. There are 3 basic cornerstones of Sunday lunch: Lasagne , baked pasta , and, of course, the ever-popular gnocchi , eaten soft piping hot from the pot or given a quick au gratin crispy touch. It’s tough to choose, but today we’re going for a special take on the first option to make these lasagna rolls . These ricotta and spinach rolls are made with classic wavy lasagna sheets, the precursor to the lasagna we know today, made with water and remilled semolina flour and dating back to Roman times. This lasagna roll is the perfect Sunday dish as it gives a nod to ancient tradition while also offering a touch of modernity. What’s more, its single-portion format means you can combine the past with the future as you take your taste buds to a whole new world of flavor. Intrigued? Then let's get started!
Discover more delicious Lasagna recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare the lasagna rolls , start with the sauce. Pour a little oil into a pot and let the onion sweat for 5-6 minutes over low heat, stirring occasionally . Pour in the tomato puree and a pinch of salt and allow to reduce, covered with a lid, for around 20 minutes over low heat .
In the meantime, take another pot and heat a little more oil together with a peeled clove of garlic . Once this is hot, add the spinach and a pinch of salt, and cover with the lid before leaving to cook for 4-5 minutes .
After this time, remove the garlic and leave the spinach to cool for a few moments before chopping with a knife . Next, place it in a bowl along with the ricotta
and add the grated cheese , salt, pepper , and nutmeg .
Stir to combine . Slice the mozzarella and place it on a tray lined with paper towel or a clean tea towel .
Now move on to the pasta. Place the wavy lasagna sheets into a pot containing plenty of salted water and cook until al dente . Then, drain them and place a tray lined with a cloth and leave to cool . Next, add the filling to the lasagna sheets, leaving ½ inch (1 cm) free around the edges ,
and roll them up . Once all of your rolls are ready, pour around half of the sauce into a casserole dish , arrange the rolls on top ,
and cover them with the remaining sauce . If it’s too dry, you can always dilute it with a little water. Next, cut the sliced mozzarella into sticks and sprinkle over the lasagna, adding a sprinkling of grated cheese to the mozzarella.
Bake in a conventional oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for around 10 minutes, followed by a few minutes under the broiler. Allow to cool for a minute before sprinkling with pepper and basil , and your lasagna rolls are ready to enjoy !
You can store your lasagna rolls in the refrigerator for up to a couple of days. If you prefer, you can also freeze them, cooked or raw; just allow them to defrost before use, in either case. If freezing them cooked, simply heat them up once defrosted, or if freezing them uncooked, proceed to cook them as stated in the recipe.
Try other types of fillings using seasonal vegetables such as pumpkin, artichokes, asparagus, or whatever is available in the garden.
The type of pasta used in this recipe is made from water and semolina flour and comes in porous, scallop-edged strips. Lasagna is one of the oldest types of pasta, dating back to Roman times, when it seems it was fried in oil rather than being cooked in boiling water, as we tend to do today before baking it in the oven. This type of pasta is traditionally used to make Neapolitan lasagne during the Carnival period.

