name:
Shortcrust pastry
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Butter: 1cup(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (approximately 2 medium)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + at least 1 hour of rest in the refrigerator

instructions:
We reveal all the secrets to prepare a perfect shortcrust pastry, one of the foundations of pastry making with which you can create tarts , crumb cakes , or cookies in an impeccably delicious way! The recipe is simple but hides some pitfalls, and today we want to show you what to pay attention to in order to achieve a crumbly and not hard pastry. There are various versions of this preparation, such as eggless pastry or one made only with egg yolks, those with more or less butter... we have chosen a universal recipe that you can use to make many delicious treats! Same ingredients and two different methods to show you, the classic method and the "sanding" method, both to try to choose your favorite version. The classic method is more suitable for making tarts or tartlets, so "shells" that need to contain a filling, and requires the ingredients to be at room temperature. The sanding method is more suitable for rich butter doughs, such as cookies, and in this case, the ingredients must be cold from the refrigerator. The essentials for preparing shortcrust pastry are easily available: eggs, butter, sugar, and flour... and of course our recipe to follow step by step to make an excellent homemade shortcrust pastry! You can prepare many buttery delights for all occasions, such as simple decorated cookies to serve at birthday parties or for original Christmas cookies, or even for Halloween!
Discover the other variations of shortcrust pastry that can be made:

To prepare shortcrust pastry with the classic method, you will need soft but still plastic butter, so leave it at room temperature long enough to reach the right consistency. At this point, start the preparation: cut the butter into cubes and place it in a bowl. Add the powdered sugar and work the mixture with your hands or with a whisk until you get a cream. Then add the eggs .
Mix well and do not worry if the mixture is not too homogeneous . At this point, add the flour all at once and knead with your hands, preferably cold ones .
As soon as the flour is absorbed, transfer the mixture to a surface and knead very quickly until it is homogeneous . It is important not to overwork the dough to avoid forming the gluten network, which is necessary for elastic doughs but not recommended for doughs that should be crumbly like shortcrust pastry. Another very important thing is not to heat the dough; since there is butter, you might have problems later in cooking.
Now you can form a dough ball and wrap it in plastic wrap. Alternatively, we recommend this method that will make rolling out the dough easier: place the dough in the center of a long enough sheet of parchment paper and then fold the ends towards the center to cover the dough well . Then use a rolling pin to roll it out to the desired thickness . You can store it like this in the refrigerator for at least an hour before using it. When you are ready to use it, you can roll it out further if necessary or cut it directly!
To prepare shortcrust pastry with the sanding method, the butter must be very cold. Pour the flour into a bowl , add the butter in cubes , and knead mainly with your fingertips .
You should obtain a crumbly mixture , hence the name "sanding." This technique makes the flour waterproof, so the gluten network does not develop during kneading. At this point, add the eggs and knead again .
Finally, add the powdered sugar and continue to knead first in the bowl and then on the surface until you get a homogeneous dough . It is important not to overwork the dough to avoid forming the gluten network, which is necessary for elastic doughs but not recommended for doughs that should be crumbly like shortcrust pastry. Another very important thing is not to heat the dough; since there is butter, you might have problems later in cooking.
Now you can wrap it in plastic wrap. Alternatively, we recommend this method that will make rolling out the dough easier: place the dough in the center of a long enough sheet of parchment paper and then fold the ends towards the center to cover the dough well . Then use a rolling pin to roll it out to the desired thickness . You can store it like this in the refrigerator for at least an hour before using it. When you are ready to use it, you can roll it out further if necessary or cut it directly!
Shortcrust pastry can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. Alternatively, it can be frozen for up to 1 month.
The structure of shortcrust pastry is versatile, depending on the result you want to achieve. Some examples? 1) To obtain a more crumbly pastry, you can use only yolks. If the dough does not compact well, you can add a bit of butter. 2) Powdered sugar gives a fine texture; granulated sugar, on the other hand, will give a more rustic effect to the cooked dough, even more so if you use brown sugar. 3) You can also add a bit of honey (10-20 g will be enough with these doses): the pastry will gain a nice golden color. 4) By adding a pinch of baking powder, you will get a softer pastry.
Shortcrust pastry lends itself very well to being flavored as you prefer. You can use grated orange or lemon zest. Or, you can add the seeds of a vanilla bean or other sweet spices, such as cinnamon. Or even add some grated ginger or nutmeg for spicier cookies.
If the shortcrust pastry crumbles, don't panic: you can retrieve it by adding a pinch of butter or eggs, depending on what is more lacking in the recipe.
Instead of butter, you can use the same amount of lard or margarine, choosing one without hydrogenated fats. If you prefer to use oil instead of butter, follow our recipe for butter-free shortcrust pastry .
With these doses, you can prepare a 9-inch crostata with lattice crust. If you only need to make a pastry shell, you can also use a 10-inch pan. If you want to make Shortcrust Pastry Cookies , with these doses you will get about 30, obviously depending on the size of your cutters.
There is no fixed rule, and the advice is to follow the specific recipe you are making.
The ideal temperature is 338°F. We recommend always baking the pastry while cold. Baking times vary. For cookies, it will take about 20 minutes, for a crostata from 40 to 60 minutes, depending on the amount and type of filling. For blind baking, you can bake the shell with weights for about 20 minutes + 10 minutes without weights.

