name:
Quick and easy potato bombs
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1lb(400 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tbsp(16 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Cooked ham: 3.5oz(100 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)
Oregano: to taste- fresh
Sunflower seed oil: 1quart(1 l)
Maldon salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 10-15 minutes resting time for the dough

instructions:
Potatoes have been a great source of inspiration for our recipes lately: We’ve made delicious potato burgers, a tasty potato crumble, and even a potato pie, not to mention using them in a delectable chocolate potato cake. Today, we take advantage of the great versatility of this tuber to prepare a rustic and incredibly tasty snack in the form of these quick and easy potato bombs ! Don’t get worried about the long rising times, either – this recipe uses baking powder, meaning that your dough will be ready in half an hour and you can have fun filling it with your favorite ingredients, or choose a classic filling of ham and scamorza cheese, as we’ve done. Just factor in the time to fry your potato bombs and you’ll have a fantastic soft, hot, and stringy finger food to serve to your friends, who will no doubt be waiting with their mouths watering! So what are you waiting for? Grab your ingredients and get kneading, because these quick and easy potato bombs are sure to be a real hit!
To prepare your quick and easy potato bombs , first boil the potatoes in plenty of cold water , which should take around 20 minutes. Once cooked, leave them to cool and remove the skins . Pour the flour into a large bowl, then mash the potatoes directly in the same bowl .
While you start to knead with your hands, add in the baking powder , the egg , and a generous pinch of fine salt. Continue to knead until the mixture is consistent ,
then transfer it to a lightly floured work surface and continue working the dough to form a ball . Return the dough to the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and leave to rest at room temperature in a dry place for around 10-15 minutes . In the meantime, take the smoked scamorza cheese, remove the rind, and cut into fairly small cubes .
Once the dough has rested, use a rolling pin to roll it out on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of around ¼ inch (0.5 cm) . Take a food ring mold with a 3-inch (8-cm) diameter and use it to cut a total of 16 discs from the dough .
Top 8 of the discs with half a slice of prosciutto, a teaspoon of diced scamorza cheese , and a few fresh oregano leaves , then cover with the remaining discs
and press the edges together firmly with your fingers to seal the filling and prevent it from leaking out when you fry the bombs . Once you have stuffed and sealed all of the discs , pour the sunflower oil into a small pan and bring it to a temperature of 320°-340°F (160°-170°C). Using a skimmer , place one piece at a time in the oil and allow to cook for around 2-3 minutes on each side.
Once your potato bombs are golden brown on all sides, gently remove them from the oil and place on a sheet of oil-absorbing paper to drain . Finally, season with Maldon salt and serve your quick and easy potato bombs piping hot!
These quick and easy potato bombs are best served right away. The dough can be frozen uncooked and allowed to defrost later in the refrigerator. Alternatively, you can freeze the filled potato bombs and then fry them from frozen as needed. It is not advisable to freeze the potato bombs after frying them.
Fill your quick and easy potato bombs with the filling of your choice: tomato, crescenza cheese, salami, sausage, mushrooms, etc., and maybe even try Nutella, jelly, chocolate chips, or diced strawberries for a surprise sweet version! Just leave the salt out of the dough and use the same recipe to make a super-sweet snack!

If you’d prefer to bake your potato bombs, you can preheat a conventional oven to 350°F (180°C) and bake them for around 10-15 minutes. They won’t brown quite the same as if you fried them, but the result will be just as delicious.

