name:
Mozzarella and tomato supplì
ingredients:
Carnaroli rice: 1 ¾cup(320 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Tomato purée: 7oz(250 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)- (already salted)
Mozzarella cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)- (for pizza)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)- grated
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Eggs: 3
Breadcrumbs: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Corn oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 45 min
Makes: 10 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus cooling time (2 hours)

instructions:
First peel the onion and chop roughly . Drizzle some oil into a frying pan, add the onion, and brown for about 3 minutes. Then, pour in the rice and stir to combine. Toast the rice for around 5 minutes over medium heat .
Next, add boiling broth until the rice is covered. Then pour in the tomato puree and stir well . Continue to cook the rice by adding more hot broth as needed.
Once cooked, with all the liquid absorbed, remove from heat. Add the grated Grana Padano cheese , a pinch of pepper , and season with salt if needed. If your broth was already salted, you shouldn’t need to add more. Next, transfer the cooked rice to a tray (or a pan lined with parchment paper) ,
and distribute evenly using a wooden spoon . Once the rice has cooled, transfer to the fridge to chill for 2 hours. Meanwhile, take the mozzarella and cut into large cubes measuring about ½ inch (1 cm) . Once the rice has become nice and dense, take it out of the fridge. Now, you can make the supplì: First, moisten your hands so the rice won’t stick to them. Take a spoonful of the rice mixture and place in your hand. Press down lightly to make it longer ,
then place some mozzarella cubes in the middle and shape the rice with your hands to create a classic croquette shape, slightly elongated . Repeat this process until you’re out of rice; with the quantities given here, you should get about 10 supplì .
Next, move on to the breading. Beat the eggs in a bowl, adding a pinch of salt . Take one of the supplì, first dip it in the egg and then dredge in the breadcrumbs ,
so that it’s completely covered . Now, repeat the breading process, dipping the supplì in the eggs again and then dredging in the breadcrumbs .
Do the same with all of the other supplì, arranging them on a tray as they’re ready. Heat plenty of corn oil until it reaches a temperature of 329°-338°F (165-170°C), then submerge two supplì at a time so the oil stays hot. Wait a few minutes, and once they’re golden brown, drain them using a slotted spoon .
Transfer to a tray covered with paper for fried food , and repeat these steps until all the supplì are cooked . Serve the mozzarella and tomato supplì hot and melty !
We recommend eating the supplì right away. Otherwise, you can keep them in the fridge for one day.
Put a pinch of crushed red pepper in the sauce and add some little pieces of prosciutto to the mozzarella!
Instead of carnaroli rice, you can use another variety, such as vialone nano, or any other starchy rice since once cooked it will need to be drier.

