name:
Rustic savory pie
ingredients:
Water: 0.3cup(70 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Speck: 7oz(200 g)
Potatoes: 4oz(110 g)
Fontina cheese: 5.5oz(160 g)
Thyme: 2sprigs
Paprika: 1pinch
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + resting time for the pie dough

instructions:
To prepare the rustic savory pie , start with the pie dough. Pour 00 flour into a food processor and add the refrigerated butter in small pieces . Then add the salt and the water, which should be ice-cold . Blitz in the food processor for just long enough to get a crumb-like consistency.
Pour the mixture out onto a work surface and knead quickly by hand to obtain a compact and fairly elastic dough .
Shape it into a rectangle, wrap in plastic wrap , and place in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes. In the meantime, wash and peel the potato, and cut it into thin slices around ? inch (2-3 mm) thick using a mandoline or a knife. Transfer the slices to a bowl filled with fresh water to keep them from turning black .
Take the speck and cut it into strips around ? inch (3-4 mm) wide , then move on to the fontina cheese, cutting it first into strips and then into cubes of around ½ inch (1 cm) .
Once the pie dough has rested for the required amount of time, use a rolling pin to roll it out on a lightly floured work surface to obtain a sheet of around ? inch (4-5 mm) thick . Cut a ring out of the dough using a 9-inch (24-cm)
food ring mold and set aside the excess dough to make the edge of the rustic savory pie later on. Next, take a 9-inch (24-cm) mold (preferably with a removable bottom) and place the disc of pie dough over it . Knead the leftover dough by hand to compact it again ,
then start to work it with your hands to create a strip that should be around 60 inches (1.5 m) long, which you will then fold in half . Starting with the joined side, roll the strip around itself to create a braid-like effect .
Once you’ve finished , seal the loose ends and roll the dough rope around itself like a snail . Unroll the rope inside the pan as you go to create the edge of your rustic savory pie . When you are done, seal the ends.
Preheat a conventional oven to 375°F (190°C), then move on to filling your pie base. Lay the strips of speck on the bottom then cover with diced Fontina cheese and finally remove the potato slices from the cold water they have been soaking in, drain them, and arrange them, slightly overlapping, to carefully cover the entire surface . Season with salt and pepper to taste, then sprinkle with the thyme leaves and paprika .
Finally, brush the edges of your rustic pie with milk . Bake the pie in a preheated conventional oven for 60 minutes at 375°F (190°C). Once cooked, take your rustic savory pie out of the oven and let it cool down before turning it out and serving it on a plate .
This rustic savory pie will keep for a couple of days in the refrigerator, covered with aluminum foil or plastic wrap, and reheated before serving. You can freeze the pie dough loaf wrapped in plastic wrap for around 1 month. You can also freeze the savory pie cooked, once it has cooled completely, or uncooked.
You could always replace the speck with prosciutto and the Fontina with caciocavallo cheese if you prefer. And why not try decorating your rustic savory pie with slices of sweet potato, mushrooms, or pumpkin for a seasonal touch?

