name:
Fruit salad
ingredients:
Nectarines: 1
Cherries: 5.25oz(150 g)
Blueberries: 2oz(60 g)
Strawberries: 3oz(90 g)
Figs: 2
Celery: 2sticks- (with leaves)
Peanuts: ⅓cup(40 g)- (not roasted or salted)
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Are you tired of the usual sad little side salad often served at lunch or dinner? Then why not treat yourself to a burst of color and flavor with our delicious fruit salad recipe? This is no ordinary fruit salad masquerading as something it’s not; this salad will introduce you to the savory dimension of fruit! Combining peaches, strawberries, and cherries with blueberries and figs jazzed up with a crunchy, salty note courtesy of celery and peanuts, this fruit salad is perfect served as a fresh appetizer, a versatile side dish, or an undeniably out-of-the-ordinary snack! Find out how best to prepare your fruit salad and bring a whole rainbow of flavors to the table!
To prepare your fruit salad , start by squeezing a lemon and pouring the juice into a large bowl . Add the oil and a pinch of salt.
Emulsify the mixture thoroughly using a whisk . Next, prepare the fruit. Cut the nectarine in half and remove the stone , then cut into thin slices .
Put the nectarine in the bowl and stir ; the lemon juice will prevent it from oxidizing. Cut the cherries in half and remove the stones , then pour them into the bowl, add the blueberries , and stir again.
Now turn to the strawberries, removing the stalks and slicing them thinly . Add them to the rest of the fruit in the bowl and mix . Next, move on to the figs: Wash them and cut off the stalks .
Then, without peeling them, cut them into wedges and add them to the bowl before stirring gently once again. Now for the celery: Cut away the whitest, toughest part and peel the stick with a vegetable peeler. Next, cut the stem into small slices and cut the leafy part into larger pieces . Add the stick and the leaves to the rest of the fruit .
Mix all of the ingredients well and add the peanuts . Give it one last stir and transfer your fruit salad into serving bowls or serve straight from the bowl. Your fruit salad is ready to be enjoyed!
This fruit salad is best eaten freshly prepared. If you have any left over, keep it in the refrigerator for up to a day covered with plastic wrap, or in a tightly sealed container. Not recommended for freezing.
Try customizing your fruit salad with your favorite fruits, and make it any time of the year using seasonal fruit. You might also like to enhance it with some bread croutons and a semi-matured goat’s cheese for a delicious and unique dish!

