name:
Eggless tiramisù
ingredients:
Heavy cream: 1 ¼cup(100 g)
Mascarpone cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Coffee: 3tbsp(50 g)
Ladyfingers: 8
Unsweetened cocoa powder: to taste
Powdered sugar: ¼cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you have a real penchant for tiramisu but you don't want to make it with raw or pasteurized egg, then we have just the thing for you: eggless tiramisu ! Think ladyfinger biscuits dipped in coffee meet velvety mascarpone and whipped cream, the irresistible creaminess and pleasant sweetness of this typical Italian dessert making you weak at the knees with every bite. Serve in single-portion glasses for an elegant and sophisticated end to your meal, or add chocolate chips between the layers for an even richer dessert with added crunch. You might even like to try the strawberry or berry version, allowing you to enjoy the sweetness of tiramisu without quite as much guilt!
Check out these other tasty variations of classic tiramisu:
Discover more delicious Tiramisu recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To make the eggless tiramisu , first make the coffee to soak the ladyfingers in using a moka pot. Whip the cream in a bowl using an electric beater , gradually add the powdered sugar and continue until semi-whipped .
Once the cream is ready , add in the mascarpone a little at a time and mix everything together gently but thoroughly .
Transfer the cream to a pastry bag without a nozzle and start filling your glasses . Spread a layer of cream on the bottom of each small glass to form the base .
Slice each ladyfinger biscuit in half , then pour the cooled ristretto coffee into a large container and quickly soak the ladyfingers . Lay the biscuits on top of the layer of cream in each small glass .
Next, add another layer of cream , then sprinkle with unsweetened cocoa powder. Continue with another halved ladyfinger and finish with a layer of cream .
Fill to the rim of the glass . Repeat this process for all of the other glasses and sprinkle your eggless tiramisu with unsweetened cocoa powder before serving .
The eggless tiramisu can be covered with plastic wrap and kept in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days. Not suitable for freezing.
You might like to add chocolate chips in between the layers of the Tiramisu. If you like, you can also add liqueur to the coffee to give the dessert that extra shot of flavor.

