name:
Baked trofie pasta
ingredients:
Trofie pasta: 11oz(300 g)
Provola cheese: 5oz(150 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ½cup(60 g)
Sausage: 14oz(400 g)
Tomato purée: 2cups(500 g)
White onions: ½
White wine: 3tbsp(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Butter: 0.3cup(70 g)
Type 00 flour: ½cup(50 g)
Whole milk: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Baked pasta dishes are our favorites! Sedanini pasticciati, a dish which succeeds in making even broccoli tasty, conchiglioni filled with tomato sauce and pasta alla sorrentina with lashings of melted mozzarella! We have no shortage of ideas and baked pasta dishes can come in endless permutations. Baked trofie pasta is a shining example: Here, the pasta is married to a flavorful sausage sauce enhanced by a creamy béchamel sauce. The topping is finished off with a scattering of provola cheese before the dish goes into the oven to brown. The result is a perfect steaming dish to bear to the table for Sunday lunch or when you have friends over for dinner. You won’t get much leftover after you make this baked trofie pasta , but even if you do, it will still taste wonderful when reheated!
To make the baked trofie pasta , first prepare a béchamel sauce by following the method shown in the practical guide, using the quantities given in this recipe. Then skin the onion and chop it finely . Heat a little oil in a pan, tip in the onion and soften it over moderate heat. Remove the sausage casing ,
then coarsely chop the sausage . Once the onion is soft, tip in the sausage , sauté for 4-5 minutes, then deglaze with the white wine and allow it to evaporate.
Add the tomato puree , season with salt, and cook for 20 minutes over medium heat. Meanwhile, place a pan of salted water on the stove and bring to a boil. When the sauce is ready , cook the trofie until they are al dente .
In the meantime, grate the provola using a coarse grater . When the trofie pasta is ready, drain them into a bowl and add the sauce and béchamel .
Mix everything together , then transfer the trofie into a baking pan. Cover the surface with the grated provola and the grated Grana Padano DOP cheese .
The trofie is now ready for baking in a preheated conventional oven at 430°F (220°C) for 20 minutes. Once ready, take the baked trofie pasta out of the oven and serve them piping hot with the cheese still runny .
The trofie pasta can be kept in the fridge for a couple of days in an airtight container. You can freeze the sausage sauce by itself after cooking, provided you have used fresh ingredients.
Add chili to the sauce to pep up the dish.

