name:
Stuffed pizza roll
ingredients:
Water: 1(155 g)- (room temperature)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Brewer's yeast: ½tsp(2 g)
Fine salt: ¾tsp(5 g)
Malt: ½tbsp(5 g)
Tomato purée: ½cup(150 g)
Basil: ⅓cup(10 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)
Cooked ham: 3.25oz(100 g)- (thinly sliced)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note plus the rising time for the dough (2-3 hours)

instructions:
The ever-popular pizza, adored by young and old alike, is a dish that’s never out of season and comes in countless different varieties. The recipe we’re sharing today is inspired by a typical rustic American pizza that pays homage to Italy: the Stromboli – a great way to enjoy all the goodness of pizza but in a different form! The whirlwind of flavor created by enveloping a tasty, stringy filling in pizza dough results in a mouth-watering roll similar to the traditional scaccia ragusana lasagne “bread.” Once cooked, the crispy shell contrasts with the soft filling of tomato, mozzarella, and ham, making this a very versatile dish that’s delicious eaten hot or cold, perfect for a picnic, a day out, or even an informal dinner with friends. Once out of the oven, simply leave it to cool for a few minutes before slicing it into mouth-watering pizza rolls that also make the perfect finger food! If you’re looking for a fancy alternative to the classic pizza Margherita, what are you waiting for? If it’s a tasty buffet you have in mind, you can’t go wrong with this stuffed pizza roll , and maybe even pizza tongues or pizza muffins to go with it!
To make the stuffed pizza roll , start by preparing the dough for the base. Pour the room-temperature water into a bowl, add the salt , and mix together using a spoon to dissolve it, before adding the extra virgin olive oil and mixing the emulsion again. Sift the flour into another large bowl,
then add in the dried brewer’s yeast , malt , and around half of the water, salt, and oil mixture .
Start kneading with your hands or a fork. Keep a little flour close to hand , along with the remaining emulsion, as you will need to add this to the dough as you go until you achieve the desired consistency, which should be soft and elastic (you may need a little more or less water, depending on the flour used). Continue to knead on a flat surface until you get a smooth and soft but dense dough that you’ll then need to shape into a ball . Leave it in the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and put it to rise in the oven with the heat off but the light on until the dough has doubled in size (around 2-3 hours). A temperature of 80-86°F (26-30°C) is best.
Meanwhile, prepare the ingredients for the filling. Pour the tomato passata into a bowl and season with salt, extra virgin olive oil , and basil leaves torn up with your hands . Cut the mozzarella into cubes and put it in a colander to drain. It is important that the mozzarella is dry, or else it will lose liquid during the cooking process and make the dough too wet .
Once the dough has had time to double in size , transfer it to a lightly floured pastry board and roll it out with a rolling pin until you get a slightly oval-shaped sheet measuring 15” x 13” (38 x 34 cm) .
Spread the tomato sauce over the dough, taking care to leave around 1” (2-3 cm) clear around the edge . Next, add the diced mozzarella and the fresh basil leaves , and finally arrange the slices of ham on top .
Brush the free edges with oil to seal the roll thoroughly when you close it . Now fold the edges inward so that they cover part of the filling (20-21), to keep it from leaking out during cooking.
At this point, roll up the sheet of pastry from the longest side , seal the ends thoroughly , and transfer the roll to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper .
Brush the surface with olive oil and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for around 40 minutes (if using a convection oven, bake the roll at 320°F (160°C) for around 30 minutes). Take your s tuffed pizza roll out of the oven and leave to cool for at least 10 minutes before slicing it .
You can keep your stuffed pizza roll in the refrigerator for 1 day and reheat it immediately before serving. Alternatively, if you’ve used all fresh ingredients, you can bake it halfway and then freeze it and complete the cooking process as needed.
You can prepare the dough the night before if you prefer and leave it in the refrigerator overnight. The next day, simply leave to rest for a couple of hours at room temperature before rolling it out. Why not try stuffing your pizza roll with your favorite cold cuts, or even grilled vegetables!

