name:
Coffee puff pastry
ingredients:
Puff pastry: 8.1oz(230 g)- rectangular
Butter: 3tbsp(50 g)- melted
Sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: ½cup(125 g)- (drained)
Heavy cream: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Powdered sugar: 3tbsp(50 g)
Coffee: ¼cup(25 g)
Dark chocolate chips: ¼cup(25 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Coffee beans: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + time to drain the ricotta cheese (ideally, overnight in the fridge)

instructions:
Full-bodied coffee, fresh ricotta cheese, and a roll of puff pastry: these simple ingredients will be enough to make the coffee puff pastry , a mouth-watering dessert with a refined look, the perfect end to a dinner with friends. Between two fragrant puff pastry wafers is a velvety cream flavored with coffee and chocolate chips. It is a winning mix of flavors and textures that will conquer all palates, serving as a valid alternative to the timeless tiramisù! These small single portions of guaranteed goodness are reminiscent of the sporcamuss from Puglia and are very easy to make. They are ideal for those who are new to cooking and would like to try their hand at a tasty but easy recipe.
To make the coffee puff pastry , first put the ricotta cheese in a sieve so it will lose its whey and not be too moist. Let it drain for at least an hour. Prepare the full-bodied coffee, add sugar, then let it cool. Make the cream: in a bowl, pour the very cold heavy cream and whip it stiff with a hand mixer .
Once the ricotta is dry, transfer it to a bowl , add the powdered sugar, and stir .
to obtain a homogeneous compound . Once the coffee has cooled, add it to the ricotta cream , stir to mix well and then add the chocolate chips .
At this point add the whipped cream a little at a time, gently so as not to let it go flat . Cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator to firm, and in the meantime make the the pastry. In the meantime, roll out the pastry
and cut with a knife into 16 equal parts . Brush the surface with melted butter and sprinkle with granulated sugar , this way the pastry will remain crunchy when in contact with the cream.
Now slightly distance the rectangles so that they do not stick together and make holes in the dough with the tines of a fork so that it does not swell too much during cooking. Cook in a ventilated oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for 10 minutes. Once cooked, remove and let cool. Meanwhile, take the cream from the refrigerator .
Pour it into a pastry bag without a nozzle (19-20), then squeeze the cream on a puff pastry , so as to cover it completely.
Then close with another puff pastry and sprinkle the surface with powdered sugar . The coffee puff pastry is ready to be served !
The coffee puff pastry can be covered with plastic wrap and stored for a couple of days in the refrigerator. Freezing is not recommended.
As an alternative to single portions, you can use a single puff pastry sheet, divided in half, so as to have a big dessert to share!

