name:
Mozzarella sticks
ingredients:
Mozzarella cheese: 8.5oz(240 g)- (for pizza)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Breadcrumbs: ¾cup(100 g)
Corn flakes: 3oz(80 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Peeled tomatoes: 12oz(350 g)
White onions: 1
Whipping cream: ½cup(100 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Brown sugar: 1tbsp
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾tbsp(10 g)
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
When having a quick dinner with friends, what better way to whet your guests’ appetites than to offer them these deliciously gooey mozzarella sticks ? If you love fried mozzarella or mozzarella in carrozza (fried mozzarella) you won’t be able to resist these tasty, flavorsome mozzarella sticks, encased in a breadcrumb and cornflake batter to make them even crunchier. And that’s not all… we suggest serving them with a spicy, piquant, slightly tart sauce that goes perfectly with the mozzarella sticks , bite after bite.
To prepare your mozzarella sticks , start with the spicy sauce: Peel and chop the onion , then peel and chop the garlic and fresh chili pepper . Add to a saucepan in which you have just heated a little oil .
Add the sugar and canned tomatoes . Season with salt .
Cover with a lid and cook for about 15 minutes. Once it’s cooked for long enough, the sauce will thicken. Pour in the cream and cook for a few moments, stirring from time to time. Then turn off the heat and blitz everything with an immersion blender .
Leave to cool . In the meantime, cut the mozzarella into rectangular sticks weighing 1 oz (20 g) each ; you should end up with 12 with the quantities in the recipe. Prepare 3 small bowls: Place the flour in one bowl, the lightly beaten eggs in another, and the breadcrumbs and cornflakes in the last one.
Lightly salt the eggs . Dip each stick in the flour , then coat completely in the egg .
Lastly, coat the sticks with the breadcrumb and cornflake mixture (16-17). Repeat these steps, dipping the mozzarella first into the egg and then into the breadcrumbs and cornflakes to get a double coating.
Now you’re ready to fry in hot oil at 340°F (170°C) for a couple of minutes. Fry one or two sticks at a time so the oil temperature doesn’t go down too much . Once the sticks are golden brown, drain with a slotted spoon and place on a sheet of absorbent paper to get rid of any excess oil. Serve the mozzarella sticks with the spicy sauce .
The mozzarella sticks should be eaten straight away.
The sauce can be prepared in advance or stored for a couple of days in the refrigerator.
For an even tastier result, you can flavor the cornflakes with chopped thyme or rosemary.

