name:
Vegetarian stuffed peppers
ingredients:
Bell peppers: 4- large
Potatoes: 14oz(400 g)
Zucchini: 10.5oz(300 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 10.5oz(300 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 0.5lb(220 g)
Thyme: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the vegetarian stuffed peppers, first put the potatoes on to boil . They’ll take around 30-40 minutes depending on how big they are (you can check the doneness by piercing them with a fork) and then allow to cool. In the meantime, you can start preparing everything else. Wash and dry the bell peppers: You’ll need 4 large peppers, around 2 lbs (850 g) in total; they may be red, yellow, and/or green peppers. Cut them across the top, around 1 inch (2 cm) from the end , leaving the stem in place, to create a sort of cup with a lid. Using a small knife, remove the parts with the seeds in the bottom part of the peppers,
as well as the inner strands . Do this for all the peppers and then set aside. Trim the zucchini and grate them using a coarse grater to get a kind of fine julienne.
Then grate the scamorza and wash and cut the cherry tomatoes into quarters ; if they’re too small, just cut them in half. Rice the potatoes while they’re still warm ,
add the cherry tomatoes , the grated zucchini , and nearly all of the scamorza ; you’ll only need a little left over to put on top of the peppers before they go in the oven.
Stir everything with a wooden spoon , then season with salt, add the thyme leaves , and season with pepper .
Stir everything again until you get an even mixture . Next, arrange the peppers in a baking dish, remove the lids for the time being, and fill them with the potato mixture .
Sprinkle with the scamorza you set aside before , put the lids back on the peppers, dress with a splash of oil , and cook them in a conventional oven preheated to 390°F (200°C) for 40 minutes. When they’re done cooking, take them out of the oven and serve your vegetarian stuffed peppers .
The vegetarian stuffed peppers can be stored for 1-2 days in the refrigerator. Not suitable for freezing.
Instead of scamorza, you can use another kind of cheese. If you prefer, you can also add hard-boiled egg!
If you follow a vegetarian diet that also excludes cheese made with animal rennet, you can replace this ingredient with a similar cheese made using vegetable rennet.

