name:
Flourless chocolate cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 12oz(340 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: ¾cup(170 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 5.3oz(150 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Vanilla extract: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
Flourless chocolate cake is a dessert with a unique consistency, as it stays compact – soft but at the same time dense and moist inside. It’s quick and easy to make, too: Just whip the butter with the sugar, add the eggs one at a time, stir in the other ingredients, the melted dark chocolate, and voilà, your cake is ready! This flourless chocolate cake is suitable for celiacs; just make sure to use gluten-free cocoa powder and powdered sugar. With its truly tempting taste, this is a chocolate cake recipe that’s really perfect for everyone!
To make the flourless chocolate cake , first melt the dark chocolate in the microwave or a bain-marie, and then allow to cool slightly . In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, whisk together the butter, softened beforehand and at room temperature, and sugar to get a creamy mixture. You can also whip the butter using a hand mixer with a whisk attachment. Add the eggs one at a time, waiting until the one before one has been mixed in well .
Now add the vanilla extract ; separately, sift the cocoa powder and then add it to the butter, egg, and sugar mixture, one spoonful at a time .
Then add the salt and finally the lukewarm chocolate . Mix all the other ingredients together using a spatula .
Butter a 9–9.5-inch (22–24-cm) cake pan and line with parchment paper, then pour the cake batter in and level it using the back of a spoon, distributing it evenly in the pan .
Bake the cake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for 30-35 minutes (320°F (160°C) for 20-25 minutes in a convection oven). Once a delicate crust has formed, remove the cake from the oven and leave to cool . You can keep the cake with the crust on the top, or else turn it over using a dinner plate. Sprinkle with plenty of powdered sugar and your flourless chocolate cake is ready to go !
Store the flourless chocolate cake under a glass cake dome for 3-4 days. You can also freeze the flourless chocolate cake since it’s unleavened: Cut it into pieces and leave to defrost when you want to serve it.
Moist on the inside, with a light crispy crust, this cake definitely has a strong flavor since it doesn’t skimp on the chocolate! If you’d like to tone the flavor down a little – and at the same time stuff yourself with tasty treats, something we always recommend – you can serve it with a delicate mascarpone cream or a scoop of cream-flavored gelato: both winning combinations!

