name:
Tagliatelle with eggplant, pesto, and cherry tomatoes
ingredients:
Egg Tagliatelle pasta: 0.66lb(300 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 7oz(200 g)- multicolored
Eggplant: 6.5oz(180 g)
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: ½cup(120 g)
Basil: 2cups(50 g)
Pine nuts: ¼cup(30 g)
Pecorino cheese: 2tbsp(15 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2tbsp(15 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¾cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Rice salads and cold pasta dishes are a firm fixture among the top 10 summer first courses, timeless dishes made with fresh and colorful seasonal vegetables, with eggplant, zucchini, peppers, and green beans bringing a whole range of flavors to the table. But if you’re in the mood for a warm, appetizing dish, why not give our recipe for tagliatelle with eggplant, pesto, and cherry tomatoes a try? This creamy, captivating pasta made with garlic-free pesto is a comforting summer dish guaranteed to delight your palate at first bite, flavored simply with a handful of multicolored cherry tomatoes, tantalizing diced eggplant, and a few spoonfuls of pesto , making it perfect for a Sunday lunch. So, why not add this delicious tagliatelle to your summer culinary repertoire!
Try other recipes of tagliatelle seasoned in different ways:
And check out more homemade pasta recipes:
What can you pair pesto with? Here are some further ideas:
To make your tagliatelle with eggplant, pesto, and cherry tomatoes , first prepare the garlic-free pesto using the instructions found in our practical guide. Wash and dry the eggplants, trim them , and cut them, first into slices and then into cubes . Now prepare your cherry tomatoes by washing them, drying them, and slicing them in half .
Heat a little olive oil in a pan, pour in the eggplant, and brown over medium heat for 5 minutes. Add the cherry tomatoes , season with salt and pepper , and stir.
Make the sauce fragrant by adding the washed and dried basil leaves , and pour in around ½ cup (120 g) of water . Cook for around 10-15 minutes, or until the water has evaporated and the eggplant is cooked, then turn off the heat . In the meantime, heat a pot of salted water for cooking the pasta.
Cook the tagliatelle until al dente . Drain the pasta and pour directly into the sauce , diluting with a ladleful of the cooking water .
At this point, you can also add in the pesto and toss the pasta to combine and develop the flavor . This will take just a few minutes. Serve your tagliatelle with eggplant, pesto, and cherry tomatoes piping hot .
Store your tagliatelle with eggplant, pesto, and cherry tomatoes in the refrigerator and consume within 3 days. Not suitable for freezing.
For an extra aromatic note, try deglazing the vegetables with white wine.

