name:
Arancini
ingredients:
Vialone nano rice: 2 ½cups(500 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1.2 l)
Caciocavallo cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- aged (for grating)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Saffron: oz(0.15 g)
Coarse salt: 1spoonful
Ground pork: 5.5oz(150 g)
Tomato purée: 0.8cup(200 g)
Peas: ½cup(80 g)
White onions: ⅓cup(50 g)
Red wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Caciocavallo cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- fresh
Prosciutto cotto: 4.2oz(120 g)- in a single slice
Mozzarella cheese: 1cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(200 g)
Water: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Breadcrumbs: 1 ½cup(200 g)
Vegetable oil: 12.7cups(3 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 12 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the cooling time of the rice (about 2 h)

instructions:
To prepare the rice arancini, first boil the rice in 1.2 liters of boiling water with coarse salt ; this way, once cooked, the water will be completely absorbed and the starch will remain in the pot, resulting in very dry and compact rice. Stir occasionally . Cook for about 15 minutes; a few minutes before the end of the cooking time, add the saffron and mix well.
Once all the liquid has been absorbed, turn off the heat and also add the butter in pieces and the grated cheese , then mix well to combine everything . Spread and level the rice on a large, low tray , then cover with plastic wrap or parchment paper and let it cool completely for a couple of hours at room temperature; the wrap will prevent the surface of the rice from drying out.
Meanwhile, prepare the ragù filling: peel and finely slice the onion. Sauté the chopped onion in a pan with the oil , then add the ground meat , salt, and pepper. Brown over high heat, then deglaze with the wine .
At this point, pour in the tomato puree , adjust the salt and pepper, and cook over low heat with the lid on for at least 20 minutes. Halfway through cooking, add the peas . If necessary, you can add a little hot water, but keep in mind that the ragù must be thick and not liquid .
While the peas are cooking, dice the mozzarella , cooked ham , and fresh caciocavallo cheese. You will then have all the fillings ready. Once the rice has completely cooled , you can form the arancini; to help shape them, keep a bowl full of water nearby so you can moisten your hands.
Take a couple of tablespoons of rice at a time (about 4 oz), then press the mound in the palm of your hand to form a hollow . Fill each arancino with mozzarella cubes and ham . This type of filling is traditionally called "al burro".
Then cover the filling with rice and shape it into a round form . Proceed this way to fill about half of the arancini, then fill the other half with a teaspoon of ragù filling .
Add a few cubes of caciocavallo and shape the rice into a pointed shape . Now that all the arancini are ready, prepare the batter: in a bowl, pour the sifted flour, a pinch of salt, and the water gradually .
Mix thoroughly with a whisk to avoid lumps . Dip the arancini, one at a time, in the batter making sure to cover them entirely .
Finally, roll them in breadcrumbs . In a pot, heat the oil to a temperature of 320°F-338°F, then fry 1-2 arancini at a time , so as not to lower the oil temperature .
When they are golden brown, drain and transfer them onto a tray lined with absorbent paper . Enjoy the rice arancini hot !
You can store the cooked rice arancini in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Alternatively, you can prepare the rice the day before, cover it with plastic wrap, and let it rest overnight in the fridge.
They can be frozen raw if you have used all fresh, non-defrosted ingredients and fry them as needed directly from frozen. In this case, we recommend making them slightly smaller so they cook evenly.
If you prefer, you can replace the caciocavallo with fresh pecorino, provola, or mozzarella.
In place of Vialone Nano, you can use Carnaroli rice.
To cool the rice faster, you can place the tray in the refrigerator before forming the arancini.

