name:
Chicken breast with bell peppers
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.25lbs(600 g)
Red peppers: 10.5oz(300 g)
Yellow peppers: 10.5oz(300 g)
Peeled baby plum tomatoes: 1lb(400 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
Shallot: 1
White wine: 3tbsp(40 g)
Water: 1- ladleful, hot
Type 00 flour: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Tired of serving up the same old chicken breast? Today we turn our attention to this chicken breast with bell peppers . This succulent second-course meat dish is deliciously enveloping, with its slightly sweet and sour flavors courtesy of the cherry tomatoes and bell peppers that release such an intense and inviting aroma when cooked, it will permeate the whole house with intoxicating fragrances. Remember to serve this dish with a generous basket of bread to fully enjoy its creaminess, because when your diners taste this chicken breast with bell peppers , they’ll all want to wipe their plates clean!
If you love this recipe you cannot miss:
To make the chicken breast with bell peppers , start by peeling the shallot and chopping it finely . Wash the red and yellow peppers, slice them in half , then remove the stalk and inner seeds.
Slice the peppers into strips and set aside. Heat the olive oil in a large pan and pour in the chopped shallot . Sauté for 1 minute, then add a ladleful of hot water (or vegetable stock) and simmer for a further 3 minutes over low heat.
Once the shallot has softened , add the peeled baby plum tomatoes and bell pepper slices ,
season with salt and pepper to taste , cover with a lid , and cook over medium heat for 25 minutes. Meanwhile, melt the butter in a pan over very low heat , and

flour the chicken breast slices . Once the butter begins to sizzle, lay the slices to brown on each side for a few minutes over medium heat, then deglaze with white wine and allow to evaporate.
Cook for a few minutes, just long enough to brown the meat . Once the bell pepper and tomato sauce is ready , add the browned chicken breasts .
Cover with a lid , and cook for another 5 minutes over medium heat before removing the lid and continuing to cook for a further 5 minutes over low heat to thicken the sauce a little. Your chicken breast with bell peppers is ready to be served hot !
The chicken breast can be stored for 2-3 days in an airtight container. You can also freeze it if you’ve used fresh ingredients.
If you want to avoid flouring and browning the chicken, you can alternatively dice it and cook it directly in the cherry tomato and bell pepper sauce.

