name:
Penne al baffo
ingredients:
Whole wheat Penne Rigate pasta: 11.33oz(320 g)
Cooked ham: 3.5oz(100 g)- (sliced)
Whipping cream: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ½tbsp(25 g)
Parsley: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 12 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Looking for a first-course dish that’s truly tasty, appealing, and ready in just 20 minutes? Well, here you go! Penne al baffo (penne pasta with ham and cream sauce) is a recipe that’s perfect for a family lunch, when you don’t have much time to cook but still want something full of flavor... and even for when some hungry friends are about to arrive! Just a few simple steps will guarantee an amazing result... The penne pasta is great for this kind of sauce since it will absorb the velvety cream and tomato sauce, giving you a tasty mouthful with every bite! We’ve chosen to liven up the creamy sauce with some ham, but there are lots of different versions: You can use speck (lightly smoked ham) or go for something completely different by using cubes of fish or squid! We recommend trying all of them and choosing the one that’s just right for you.
To make penne al baffo , first, wash, dry, and finely chop the parsley . Put it aside and move on to the ham, cutting it into thin slices . Heat up a pot full of water, salted to taste, which will be used to cook the pasta. Now, go back to making the sauce: Pour a drizzle of oil into a pot, add the ham and let it brown for about a minute ,
then add the cream as well . Stir to combine, add the tomato puree and let this cook for around 10 minutes over low heat .
Meanwhile, cook the pasta , and once it’s al dente, drain it and pour straight into the pot with the sauce . Season with salt and pepper to taste ;
add the chopped parsley , stir to combine , and serve your penne al baffo while still hot .
We recommend eating the penne al baffo right away. Alternatively, you can keep it for one day in an airtight container in the fridge. Not suitable for freezing.
You can jazz up the penne al baffo however you like, adding seasonal vegetables such as peas, asparagus, chopped fresh spinach, zucchini, or shrimp, speck, or pancetta! If you prefer, instead of the tomato passata, you can use fresh tomatoes that have been browned and then added to the light cream.

