name:
Chicken meatballs
ingredients:
Chicken: 5.5oz(160 g)- roasted or rotisserie
Mozzarella cheese: 1oz(30 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(20 g)
Eggs: 1
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Vegetable oil: to taste- for frying

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 9 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
If you, too, are a fan of chicken thighs but never know what to do with the leftover breast part when you buy a rotisserie chicken or roast a chicken at home, we have just the solution for you! Chicken meatballs are tender, crispy bites that everyone, young and old alike, will love. They feature a popular filling: stringy mozzarella! Transform a dry and unappetizing chicken breast into something truly special with these chicken meatballs, which are perfect for many occasions - they can even be served as a simple appetizer. So, make plenty of them, serve them with a wide variety of sauces, and enjoy with friends!
Check out these recipes too:
Meatballs
Chicken piccata
Discover more delicious Chicken recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare your chicken meatballs , first separate the bones of the cooked chicken from the meat and remove the skin ; you can use either the breast or the thighs. Next, pull apart the pieces of meat with your hands (2-3).
Add the egg , breadcrumbs , and Parmigiano cheese .
Add the oregano leaves and a pinch of salt and pepper, and mix everything together with your hands until the mixture is nicely dense. Next, cut the mozzarella into small pieces. Take a portion of the meat mixture, bearing in mind that you will need to make 9 meatballs, and flatten it in the palm of your hand to form a shell .
Place a couple of pieces of mozzarella in the center , and seal the mixture around it to form the meatball . Repeat this process for the others and arrange them on a tray lined with parchment paper .
Next, beat the egg in a small bowl, pour the breadcrumbs into another, and heat the oil until it reaches a temperature of 340°F (170°C). Once the oil is hot, dip each meatball first in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs . Fry the meatballs for a couple of minutes maximum , until golden brown,
then use a skimmer to drain the meatballs from the oil , and transfer them to a paper towel. Season with salt and serve your meatballs while still hot !
We recommend eating these chicken meatballs right away.
For a super-crispy crumb coating, try using crumbled cornflakes instead of breadcrumbs.
You might like to try replacing the mozzarella with another stringy cheese, such as scamorza or caciocavallo.

