name:
Paccheri pasta with salmon
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Salmon fillets: 1.4lbs(650 g)
Robiola cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Taggiasca olives: 1.6oz(45 g)
Dry white wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Chives: 0.2oz(5 g)
Lime peel: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
White pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Fresh salmon is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, polyunsaturated fats, minerals, and vitamins... all great reasons to cook it more often! Today, we’re going to suggest using it to make a first-course dish that’s both simple and tasty: paccheri pasta with salmon . The robiola cheese adds a creamy touch to the sauce, while the lime zest gives it zing with its fresh, fragrant note and the olives take the flavor of this pasta dish up a notch. An ideal recipe for an everyday dinner, this paccheri pasta with salmon will please even the most demanding guests... maybe with the elegant addition of a velvety leek and potato puree, just right for special occasions.
To make the paccheri pasta with salmon , first bring a pot filled with plenty of water to a boil to cook the pasta. Meanwhile, remove the skin from the salmon and dice the flesh into ½–¾-inch (1-2 cm) cubes . Chop the chives finely .
Once the water has reached a boil, add a pinch of salt and then the paccheri, which will need to cook for around 20 minutes or the time stated on the package . While the pasta is cooking, lightly fry the garlic in some oil in a large pan, then add the salmon . Season with salt and pepper and fry over high heat for 2-3 minutes, stirring gently to keep the salmon cubes from breaking.
Pour in the white wine and allow it to evaporate completely, then lower the heat and remove the garlic from the pan. Finally, add the olives , stir gently, and turn off the heat .
Now, place the robiola cheese in a bowl, add one ladleful of cooking water from the pasta and stir until you get a creamy sauce . Pour the robiola cream into the pan with the salmon and stir gently to combine.
Once the paccheri is al dente, drain and add to the pan with the salmon , stirring over low heat just long enough to mix the pasta into the sauce , then turn off the heat and sprinkle over the chives .
For the finishing touch, add the grated lime zest , dress with a dash of oil , and then serve your paccheri pasta with salmon .
The paccheri pasta with salmon can be kept in the fridge for up to one day. Not suitable for freezing.
If you like, you can use ricotta cheese instead of robiola or a little light cream. You can also use dill instead of chives and the zest of half a lemon instead of the lime.

