name:
Calamarata (Pasta with calamari and tomato sauce)
ingredients:
Calamarata pasta: 14oz(400 g)
Calamari (squid): 1.3lbs(600 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Parsley: 1bunch- to be chopped
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Cherry tomatoes: 14oz(400 g)
Triple concentrated tomato paste: ¼cup(25 g)
White wine: ½cup(60 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
Do you recognize this characteristic pasta shape? This is calamarata , a very common pasta shape in the cuisine of Campania, which lends itself very well to quick and tasty sauces, such as swordfish ragu . Are you wondering if they have anything in common with paccheri pasta? Well, it's not a crazy question! In fact, the calamarata, in the Neapolitan area, is known by the name of mezzi paccheri pasta. In addition to being a pasta shape, it is also a sauce whose protagonist, it might go without saying, is the calamari. Cut into large rings, it is practically the same as the pasta shape. Thanks to our very original way of serving calamarata pasta, it could easily represent a dish for special occasions, parties, or to surprise guests. The parchment paper serves to preserve the scent that will come out of it, inebriating your guests. Prepare the delicious calamarata with us and enjoy your meal!
To prepare the calamarata , start with garlic, skin it and crush it with the palm of your hand . Then clean the chili pepper, remove the seeds and finely chop it .
Then wash the tomatoes, dry them, and divide them into 4 parts . Start cleaning the calamari. First rinse under running water , then remove the inner part by pulling the head. From the latter e liminate the white part with the cartilage; from the head, remove the eyes and squeeze the beak in the cent er .
Peel off the skin using a paring knife and rinse again before cutting it into rings about 3/4 inch (2 cm) wide . Move to the stove; put plenty of salted water to boil in a pan and then cook the pasta. Place a pan on the stove. Heat the oil together with the whole peeled garlic clove and chopped chili pepper .
As soon as the bottom is hot, raise the temperature and sear the calamari rings . After a few seconds , simmer with white wine until the alcohol has completely evaporated . Then remove the garlic, add the cherry tomatoes and tomato paste .
Stir , add salt , then lower the heat, and let it cook for about ten minutes; when done cooking, sprinkle with chopped parsley . In the meantime, cook the pasta until it is halfway cooked .
As soon as the pasta is cooked, take a ladle of cooking water and pour it into the pan then drain the calamarata pasta and toss it into the pan . Mix a few moments and add water as needed so that the mixture is liquid, but does not come apart .
Place a sheet of parchment paper on top of a sheet of aluminum foil, put a couple of ladles of pasta in the middle and close the parchment paper first
and then the aluminum foil as if they were candy . Arrange them on a drip pan and bake in a static oven, preheated to 390° F (200° C), for about 10 minutes. Your calamarata pasta is ready… you just have to serve it !
It is preferable to eat the calamarata pasta immediately, otherwise the taste, aroma and texture will tend to deteriorate. However, you can keep it in the fridge for a couple of days. If you prefer, you can prepare the sauce in advance, as mentioned before, but it would be advisable not to leave the prepared sauce too long without using it with pasta.
Freezing is not recommended.
To make the calamarata pasta even tastier , you can use tomato puree, which will also make the base creamier! By using both the parchment paper and aluminum foil, less liquid will evaporate while the calamarata pasta bakes in the oven!

