name:
Chocolate profiteroles
ingredients:
Water: 2.2oz(62 g)
Whole milk: 2.2oz(62 g)
Butter: 2cups(55 g)
Fine salt: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Sugar: 2tsp(8 g)
Type 00 flour: 2.7oz(77 g)
Eggs: 4.25oz(120 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Water: to taste
Heavy cream: 8.8oz(250 g)- 35% fat
Powdered sugar: 1.75oz(50 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Water: 7oz(200 g)
Dark chocolate: 1lb(450 g)
Heavy cream: 2.8oz(80 g)
Sugar: 5.3oz(150 g)
Salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Chocolate profiteroles are a pyramid of goodness! Chef Denny Imbroisi has made this dessert in our kitchens, placing the delicious cream puffs one by one with care and precision! This French dessert with Italian origins has spread all over the world thanks to its utter deliciousness! These morsels of choux pastry are usually filled with Chantilly cream or pastry cream but certainly what characterizes them the most is their chocolate coating! To ensure that it always remains creamy and that the profiteroles are completely coated, you need to pay close attention to the temperature of the icing, this is the only way you will properly coat the profiteroles! Hurry and make these little bites of goodness... we guarantee you will not be disappointed!
To prepare the choux dough , first pour the water, milk, salt and sugar into a saucepan. Add the diced butter
and bring it all to a boil. Now add the flour all at once and stir with a spatula or wooden ladle. Don not worry about lumps and stir quickly, then cook the roux until a white patina forms on the bottom of the pan , it will take at least 2-3 minutes. Transfer the resulting dough into a bowl ,
and add one egg at a time stirring constantly with a spatula . Do not worry if the dough looks separate at first, just keep stirring. Only when it is completely absorbed do you add the next one . Continue stirring to obtain a smooth and consistent dough . Then transfer it inside a pastry bag, with a smooth 1/2" (12-13 mm) nozzle.
At this point, take a baking pan and line it with baking paper; to make the paper stick , squeeze a bit of the dough into the corners and center. Gently squeeze walnut-size dollops of dough , spacing them apart (10-11). Using a slightly wet spoon, lightly press the surface of the balls to flatten the top of each one .
Then beat the yolk in a bowl with a little water and use it to brush the surface of the choux pastry ; this will give it a uniform color . Cook in a static oven at 440° F (220° C) for about 15 minutes, until golden brown. Avoid opening the oven at this stage; after this time , finish cooking at 350° F (180° C) for another 15-20 minutes, venting the stove a bit by inserting a small ball of aluminum foil between the oven door and frame. If you prefer to bake the choux pastry using a ventilated oven , you will need to heat the oven to 440° F (220° C), put the pastry in, reduce the temperature to 350° F (180° C) , and wait about 20-25 minutes. Take out the choux and let them cool before filling them .
In the meantime, make the chocolate sauce for the coating. First chop the chocolate , then pour the water and sugar into a saucepan.
Bring to a boil and as soon as it starts to boil add the cream . Let come to a boil again
and add half of the dark chocolate , then stir constantly with a whisk while adding the remaining chocolate .
Continue stirring and as soon as it starts boiling , transfer to a bowl and add a pinch of salt . Stir and let cool at room temperature to about 85-90° F (30-32°) until it is thick enough to coat the choux. This will take about 15 - 20 minutes.
While the sauce cools, prepare the Chantilly cream for the filling. Pour the cream into a very cold bowl. Start beating the cream with an electric beater , or with the electric whisk if you prefer; as soon as it starts to thicken, add half of the powdered sugar and the vanilla bean seeds .
Continue beating with a whisk and before it has reached a very firm consistency, add the remaining powdered sugar . Continue beating until the cream is completely whipped .
At this point everything is ready to assemble the chocolate profiteroles . Take the choux and pierce the base using a smooth nozzle . Transfer the Chantilly cream into a pastry bag fitted with a smooth nozzle. Stuff the choux
and place them on a tray . Cover them with plastic wrap and put them in the refrigerator for a few minutes. Now all you have to do is to put the finishing touch on the dessert. Place a rack on a sheet of baking paper, then dip the profiteroles one at a time into the chocolate sauce . With the help of two forks, move the profiterole so that it is completely covered ;
then pull it out and place it on the rack ; this way the excess coating will drip off. Once you have coated all the profiteroles , start placing them on a plate
in the form of a pyramid . Decorate with a few dollops of C hantilly cream , left over from the filling and put in the refrigerator until serving .
Chocolate profiteroles can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
The empty baked choux can be stored for a week in a cookie tin; alternatively, they can be frozen for about a month.
The chocolate coating can also be covered with plastic wrap and refrigerated for 2-3 days.
If the coating is too runny and does not stay on the puffs , it is probably still too hot. If it is too thick, just heat it up for a few seconds in the microwave.
If the cream is not fatty enough , or simply to make it last longer, you can add 1 tablespoon of mascarpone when the cream is half beaten.

