name:
Savory zucchini crumble
ingredients:
Butter: ⅔cup(150 g)- cold
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅔cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1cup(100 g)- grated
Baking powder: ¾tbsp(8 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Zucchini: 10.5oz(300 g)
Cooked ham: 7oz(200 g)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 6.5oz(180 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
In honor of the beautiful spring days we all love, and the warm, pleasant sun they bring with them, tempting us to dine al fresco or maybe plan a little excursion, we’re delighted to share with you this delicious savory pie. Inspired by the traditional Mantovana cake, which we already did a savory recipe for, we decided to get to work and bake a delicious savory zucchini crumble . This savory pie, made with plenty of ham because it just goes so well with ricotta cheese and zucchini, is perfect for lunch outdoors or even away from home. You might want to include it on a lavish buffet table to tempt your guests, who will no doubt all be coming back for more! This delicious savory zucchini crumble is certainly a recipe that will test everyone’s self-control, including your own!
To make your savory zucchini crumbl e, start with the crumble. Mix together the flour, baking powder , salt, and grated Parmigiano cheese in a bowl. Next, add in the cold butter, diced ,
and work with your fingertips . When the mixture starts to compact slightly, add the egg , and carefully crumble the mixture into coarse crumbs before setting aside in the refrigerator while you prepare the filling.
Now prepare your zucchini. After cleaning and trimming them , cut them in half lengthwise and then into slices around ½ inch (1.5 cm) thick . Moving now to the stove, pour a glug of oil into a pan and, once the bottom is hot, dip the zucchini slices into it .
Cook them over medium heat, stirring occasionally , for around 6-7 minutes or until nicely cooked, then season with salt and pepper and transfer to a bowl . Once they have cooled completely, add the ricotta and mix , then set aside.
Grease a 9” (22-cm) cake pan with a removable base and a 1” (3-cm) rim , then line the bottom with a circle of parchment paper the same size as the mold . Next, cover the base and sides of the mold with around half of the crumble .
Add the ricotta and zucchini, leveling out the surface , cover with ham , and top with the remaining crumble .
Your zucchini crumble is now ready for cooking . Bake on the lowest rack of a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for around 50 minutes . Once your zucchini crumble is ready, take it out of the oven and leave to cool for a few minutes before turning out and serving .
This savory zucchini crumble can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. If you prefer, you can also freeze it either cooked or uncooked, in which case it should be left to defrost in the refrigerator before cooking it.

