name:
Chicken drumsticks with mustard and bacon
ingredients:
Chicken drumsticks: 8- (about 2.2 lbs (1 kg)
Smoked pancetta: 1cup(150 g)- thinly sliced
Mustard: 0.4cup(100 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Sage: 8leaves
White wine: 0.35cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
For all lovers of roasted chicken, today we offer an irresistible recipe: chicken drumsticks with mustard and bacon . With the addition of mustard brushed directly on the chicken thighs, wrapped with thin slices of bacon, your roasted chicken will become a tasty and juicy dish, appreciated even by mustard skeptics! A dish that contains a skillful mix of flavors and textures: the chicken is softened by mustard and the crispness of bacon makes a tasty contrast. There is no adult or child who can resist this simple goodness! And if you are wondering what the most suitable side dish for chicken drumsticks with mustard and bacon is... well we have no doubt: roasted potatoes!
To prepare chicken drumsticks with mustard and bacon , wash and dry the chicken drumsticks thoroughly. Remove the skin, pulling it gently towards the thinner end . Make four clean evenly-shaped cuts on each rumsticks , then brush the surface with mustard ensuring it gets into the cuts and spreading it evenly. If you prefer, you can also rub the mustard on the chicken drumsticks with your hands.
Wrap two slices of bacon around each drumstick, covering them completely . Next, arrange them neatly in the pan .
Sprinkle them with oil and season with the halved garlic and the broken up rosemary sprigs .
Add the sage leaves . Then salt and pepper to taste.
Finally pour the wine over the chicken : the baking pan is now ready to be placed in the oven. Cook in a static oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for 50 minutes . Check the cooking of your drumsticks from time to time because it will depend on the size of the legs themselves. While the legs are roasting, collect the liquid released from the meat a few times and pour it over the top to prevent it from drying out. Once cooked, remove your chicken drumsticks with mustard and bacon from the oven and enjoy them nice and hot!
Chicken drumsticks with mustard and bacon can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container.
If you have only used fresh ingredients, the chicken drumsticks with mustard and bacon can also be frozen.
To make your chicken drumsticks with mustard and bacon even more tender, let them marinate for half an hour in the fridge covered with plastic wrap. To make the mustard milder, add a few drops of honey!

