name:
Mediterranean pasta salad
ingredients:
Bow tie pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 9oz(250 g)
Basil: 20leaves- (fresh)
Olive: ¼cup(40 g)- (black, pitted)
Tuna in oil: 7oz(200 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 7oz(200 g)- (buffalo mozzarella)
Salt: 1pinch
Pepper: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 7 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time

instructions:
Mediterranean pasta salad is a tasty summer dish, ideal for the warmer months when you feel less like slaving over a hot stove and more like eating simple, fresh, warm-weather dishes! With mozzarella, tuna, cherry tomatoes, olives, and a sprinkling of fresh basil, this colorful dish of bow tie pasta will charm you with its Mediterranean warmth. Like pasta salad with eggplant and sun-dried tomatoes and classic cold pasta, Mediterranean pasta salad is a summer dish that can be a versatile main course for dinners with friends and lunch with family. You could also put pasta salad in Tupperware to have for lunch at the beach or office: You won’t be able to wait for your break!
Also check out these tasty recipes:
To prepare the Mediterranean pasta salad , start by washing the cherry tomatoes and cutting them into small pieces . Slice the pitted olives into rounds and cut the buffalo mozzarella into cubes, then place in a strainer to drain off any excess liquid .
In the meantime, bring a pot of salted water to a boil and add the bow tie pasta . Now go back to the dressing: Put the tuna with its oil in a large bowl and break up into small pieces using the prongs of a fork .
Add the chopped cherry tomatoes and torn basil leaves to the bowl with the tuna. Stir well to blend all the flavors .
Drain the pasta and transfer to the bowl with the dressing . Add the black olives
and mozzarella, minus its excess liquid . Mix well and, if you prefer, season with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and a pinch of salt and pepper. Let your Mediterranean pasta salad rest for at least half an hour before serving !
This Mediterranean pasta salad will keep in the fridge, in an airtight container or in a bowl covered with plastic wrap, for 2-3 days. If you don’t plan on eating it right away, remember to leave out the tomatoes because they tend to turn sour. Add them when you are just about to eat the dish.
Pasta salad is a dish that lends itself to a thousand variations that you will never tire of! If you prefer stronger flavors, use black olives, typical of southern Italy. If you prefer subtler flavors, use green ones instead! What about the buffalo mozzarella? You can swap it for fior di latte or stracciatella cheese, depending on your taste – and what you happen to have in your fridge!

