name:
Ham and cheese-filled veal rolls
ingredients:
Veal sirloin: 11oz(400 g)- (8 slices)
Cooked ham: 3oz(100 g)
Smoked provola cheese: 3oz(100 g)
Sage: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
White wine: ¼cup(40 g)
Thyme: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Type 00 flour: ½cup(50 g)
Water: 2 ¾cups(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
What's for dinner tonight? The answer varies from season to season, but there is a quick and delicious dish that cannot be missed on the weekly menu that you can enjoy 365 days a year: ham and cheese-filled veal rolls ! It is a timeless classic of home cooking and a family favorite. After all, how can you resist these tender slices of meat stuffed with stringy cheese and slices of cooked ham? Quick and easy, these rolls will soon become your go-to dish! And if you love to soak up the juices with bread, give their sauce version a try too!
To make ham and cheese-filled veal rolls , first make sure that the slices are very thin , otherwise pound them with a meat tenderizer. Now stuff them with thinly sliced cheese and ham .
Roll the meat to make the roulade and seal the ends with toothpicks .
Cook: Heat the olive oil with butter in a hot pan . Toss in the aromatic herbs (thyme, rosemary and sage) collected in a bunch tied with kitchen twine . Leave to release the flavors over medium heat for 3 minutes, then turn up the heat and add the rolls. Season with salt .
Add pepper too , brown them for 3 minutes on one side, then turn them and brown them for 1 minute on the other side . Sweat with white wine and let it evaporate.
Add the flour and water too. Lower the temperature, cover with the lid and continue cooking for 6 minutes.
Once cooked, remove the herb bunch . The rolls will be tender and wrapped in a creamy sauce . Serve the ham and cheese-filled veal rolls hot .
Ham and cheese-filled veal rolls can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days. If you prefer you can also freeze them uncooked, just let them thaw before cooking.
These rolls are also excellent if prepared with fragrant slices of mortadella, speck or bacon. Even the cheese can be replaced with fontina cheese, caciocavallo cheese, Gruyere cheese, Emmentaler cheese, the choice is yours!

