name:
Rigatoni pie
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 2cups(500 g)
Tomato purée: 5cups(800 g)
Provola cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)- grated
Mortadella: 5.6oz(160 g)
Salami: 5.6oz(130 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 4.6oz(130 g)
Eggs: 4
Onions: 1- small
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
We, for one, can only tell you the indisputable truth: finding cold cuts left in the refrigerator happens to us too. So empty the leftovers from the refrigerator and let's make rigatoni pie . It is a very simple first course that can be cooked mid-morning and be ready for lunch. Rigatoni dipped in a tasty tomato sauce, a handful of cold cuts and cheese cubes, then pop it in the oven. It is sophisticated and faster compared to classic baked pasta , to which we add meatballs and béchamel but if you prefer you could also think of adding and embellishing your pie the same way. Are you ready? Let's make it together!
To prepare the pasta pie , first boil the eggs: place them into a pot with cold water, and as soon as they come to a boil, let them cook for about 9 minutes.When they are cooked, remove the shells while they are still warm and set the eggs aside . In the meantime, prepare the sauce: finely chop an onion and a clove of garlic and place the chopped mixture in a large oiled pan. Let everything sweat for about fifteen minutes, adding a few tablespoons of water if necessary so as not to burn the sauce .
Add the tomato puree , season with salt and cook over low heat until the sauce has thickened: it will take about 30-35 minutes. Flavor hand-thorn basil leaves and thyme leaves . Slice the eggs with a knife or egg cutter to obtain regular slices .
Now cut the salami, mortadella and provola into small cubes. Also cut the mozzarella into cubes and put in a strainer so it will release the excess whey . Boil plenty of water, add salt, and cook the rigatoni .
Drain the pasta halfway through cooking and immediately put it in the sauce , then add 2-3 cubes each of salami, mortadella and provola .
Mix everything carefully and transfer half of the mixture into a 13x9 inch (34x24 cm) baking dish . Add a couple of tablespoons of grated Parmesan cheese and half the boiled eggs .
Then add the remaining part of mortadella, salami and provola . Cover with the rest of the pasta
and finish with mozzarella and the remaining part of eggs and grated Parmesan cheese . Your pasta is ready to bake in a static oven preheated to 390° F (200° C) for about 15 minutes, then 4-5 minutes under the grill to brown the surface. Enjoy your meal !
Rigatoni pie can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. Alternatively, you can bake it the next day, just prepare it beforehand, cover well with plastic wrap, and refrigerate. It can also be frozen cooked or raw.
Rigatoni pie will give you the maximum freedom to modify the ingredients according to your preferences: speck or smoked pancetta bacon for those who love savory flavors. Baked ham or sweet pancetta for those who prefer more delicate tastes. Same thing for the cheeses, but try to choose stringy ones like provolone, caciocavallo, or scamorza. For an extra touch of taste, you can add a few tablespoons of irresistible béchamel!

