name:
Fusilli with zucchini pesto and salmon
ingredients:
Fusilli pasta: 11oz(320 g)
Salmon steaks: 9oz(260 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Lemons: 1- juice of half
Zucchini: 7oz(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 0.6cup(125 g)
Pine nuts: 1oz(30 g)
Almonds: 0.35oz(10 g)
Basil: 0.35oz(10 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(30 g)- (grated)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes for draining the zucchini

instructions:
A delicate and tasty first course, ideal for any occasion, fusilli pasta with zucchini pesto and salmon is a classic dish that will win over even the fussiest eaters. With its fresh flavor, the zucchini pesto meets the fusilli in a creamy embrace, flavored by the salmon, which adds a distinctive touch. This fresh pasta course is ideal for a family lunch or a romantic dinner. Zucchini pesto and salmon are a match made in heaven, and a good glass of dry white wine goes perfectly with both. You can also combine them with your favorite type of pasta, such as farfalle or linguine. This version of fusilli pasta with zucchini and salmon pesto is quick and easy to prepare. Try it and get ready for second helpings all around!
To prepare the fusilli pasta with zucchini pesto and salmon , start with the zucchini pesto: Take the zucchini, cut off the ends , and grate coarsely . Place the grated zucchini in a strainer over a deep container: The strainer must not touch the bottom of the bowl .
Lightly salt the zucchini , stir, and leave to drain with a weight on top . A jar full of pulses or flour is ideal for this job. Let the zucchini stand like this for about 30 minutes so it loses its water .
Once drained, place the zucchini in a food processor , add the pine nuts, almonds, and Parmigiano Reggiano cheese , followed by a pinch of salt ,
oil , and the basil leaves . Blitz until you get a uniform paste with all the ingredients well combined .
The zucchini pesto is ready: Transfer it to a bowl and set aside . Next, place a pot full of plenty of salted water on the stove: You’ll need it to cook the pasta. Now turn your attention to the salmon steak, which should already be boned and skinned. First cut it into thick slices and then cut those into strips about 1 inch (2-3 cm) long .
Transfer the strips to a bowl , add the oil , and season with salt and pepper .
Stir well to combine and set aside. Once the pasta water has reached a boil, add the fusilli and cook for the time stated on the package. Now go back to the salmon: First, juice one lemon .
Then add the salmon strips to a hot frying pan and sear for a few seconds, stirring as little as possible . Deglaze with the lemon juice and cook for a few more minutes . Remove the pan from the heat and keep the salmon warm.
Pour the zucchini pesto into a large saucepan . By this time, the fusilli will have cooked: Drain and reserve some of the cooking water, then pour into the pesto , adding a ladleful of cooking water to blend everything together .
Mix the fusilli and pesto thoroughly , and add the salmon, stirring gently . Heat the pasta through for a few seconds and then serve: Your fusilli pasta with zucchini pesto and salmon is ready to be enjoyed !
We recommend eating the fusilli pasta with zucchini pesto and salmon as soon as it’s ready. If there’s any left over, it can be kept in the fridge for up to a day in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap. Not suitable for freezing. The zucchini pesto can be kept in the fridge, covered with a layer of oil, for 2 days. Or you can freeze it in portions to use as needed.
As an extra twist, you can add walnuts or pistachios to your zucchini, or mint leaves for a zingy sauce. For a stronger flavor, add white wine or brandy to the salmon instead of lemon.

