name:
Cannelloni with eggplant
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3.6cups(400 g)
Eggs: 8oz(220 g)- (about 4)
Eggplant: 14oz(400 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 5oz(150 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Tomato purée: 1 ½cup(400 g)
Yellow onions: 1
Basil: 2leaves
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 1.3cups(300 g)
Type 00 flour: ¼cup(30 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make the cannelloni with eggplant , first prepare the fresh pasta: pour the flour into a large bowl, add the eggs , and mix everything by hand until the resulting dough is smooth and elastic . Cover the dough with plastic wrap and allow to rest at room temperature for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the sauce: thinly slice the onion and heat a little oil in a pan. Add the onion and fry for a couple of minutes, then pour in the tomato puree .
Season with salt and pepper and cook over low heat with the lid on for about 30 minutes . After cooking, add the fragrant basil leaves and set to one side.
While the sauce is cooking, you can get on with the eggplant: firstly, cut it into slices and then into cubes measuring about ½ inch (1 cm) . Drizzle oil into another frying pan, add the eggplant and salt .
Sauté over medium heat for about 5-7 minutes, then set aside to cool . Now it’s time to make the béchamel sauce: melt the butter in a saucepan and heat the milk separately. When the butter has melted, pour in the flour all at once and beat until the roux is golden .
Now add the milk slowly , season with salt and pepper, and continue to stir over medium heat until the sauce is thick, smooth, and even . Lastly, cut the mozzarella into ½ inch (1 cm) cubes .
Once the dough has rested, divide it into two portions for convenience and cover one of them with a tea towel to stop it from drying out. Using a pasta maker, or rolling pin if you prefer, roll out the dough until it is less than 0.05 inch (1 mm) thick and cut it into 6x4 inch (15x10 cm) rectangles . The sheet must be very thin, otherwise the cannelloni won't cook properly. If you prefer a thicker pasta sheet, you will need to blanch the pasta rectangles, dip them into ice water and lay them out on a clean dish towel before continuing.
Now you are ready to assemble your cannelloni: stuff each pasta rectangle with a tablespoonful of eggplant and one of mozzarella , then roll up to form a cylinder .
When you have made all the cannelloni, take a 9x9 inch (24x24 cm) baking dish, and cover the bottom with a ladle of tomato sauce and one of béchamel sauce . Lay the cannelloni in the baking dish side by side and top with the remaining tomato sauce ,
then add the rest of the béchamel sauce, blending it into the tomato with the back of a spoon . Lastly, sprinkle the surface with grated Grana Padano DOP cheese . Bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (175°C) for approximately 30 minutes, then take the dish out of the oven and allow to stand for a few minutes. Serve the cannelloni with eggplant while they are piping hot !
Eggplant cannelloni can be stored for 2 days in the refrigerator. You can freeze them when they are cooked and have been left to cool down completely.
For a stronger flavor, you can pep up the eggplant with some of the grated Grana Padano DOP cheese before adding it to the filling. Alternatively, you can substitute smoked provola cheese for the mozzarella cheese.
In this case, you won’t need to blanch the pasta sheets, though this is still an option if you prefer softer cannelloni.

