name:
Gnocchi with speck and walnuts
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2.3cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Speck: 7oz(200 g)
Walnut kernels: 2oz(60 g)
Taleggio cheese: 8oz(240 g)
Whipping cream: ¼cup(150 g)
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Rosemary: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
You’ll need to roll up your sleeves like any self-respecting Italian nonna to prepare this dish. It’s an even more tempting and appetizing version of a quintessential home-cooked recipe that’s usually reserved for a special occasion: gnocchi with speck and walnuts . Use a special gnocchi board or simply the prongs of a fork… it will still taste the same and a slightly misshapen look will add to the homespun charm! Because these soft morsels cry out for tasty seasonings such as ragu or four-cheese sauces, we have accompanied the gnocchi with a creamy sauce containing taleggio cheese plus a good sprinkling of crispy speck and walnuts that will add character to the dish. Let yourself be lured by our appetizing recipe and find out the different ways you can prepare gnocchi. All the sauces are creamy and tasty, such as our version with stracchino cheese and spinach!
To prepare the potato gnocchi , boil the potatoes for about 30-40 minutes from the time they begin to bubble. The cooking time will vary, depending on size. Peel them while still hot and then immediately mash them into the flour that you have tipped onto the pastry board . Add the egg and a pinch of salt,
then knead with your hands to achieve a soft but compact dough . Tear off a portion of dough and roll it out with your fingertips into one inch (2 cm) thick rolls. Your work will be easier if you sprinkle remilled semolina onto the work surface from time to time. Cut the gnocchi
and roll them over the gnocchi board to achieve the characteristic ridged look . As you shape the potato gnocchi, arrange them on a tray lined with a lightly floured cloth, spaced well apart . Now make the sauce: Slice the taleggio cheese ,
chop the rosemary leaves and set to one side. Pour the fresh cream into a large saucepan, flavor with nutmeg , add the taleggio cheese to the pan and allow it to melt over low heat, whisking at the same time.
As soon as the taleggio cheese has melted, thicken the sauce over a low heat so that it is not too runny, then remove from the heat . Cut the speck into medium slices, slice into strips and then roughly cut into cubes . Heat the speck with the chopped rosemary
and sauté until crispy , then set aside. Chop the walnuts coarsely and toast them in the saucepan you used to fry the speck so that they absorb the aroma.
Cook the gnocchi in boiling salted water . As soon as they bob to the surface, drain them into the pan with the taleggio cheese sauce . If necessary, add a ladleful of the gnocchi cooking water and mix everything over low heat. Add the speck
and the walnuts , add salt if necessary, and season with black pepper . Serve your gnocchi piping hot. Buon appetito !
The gnocchi with speck and walnuts can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Uncooked potato gnocchi can be stored too. Leave them on a cloth for a couple of hours at most. In this case, they will take slightly longer to cook because they have been air-dried. You can also freeze the gnocchi as follows: put the tray into the freezer and after about 20 minutes, tip the potato gnocchi into a freezer bag. Carry on until you have frozen them all in batches. To cook them, simply throw them, still frozen, in boiling salted water.
You can make an excellent meal of any leftover gnocchi by coating them in breadcrumbs flavored with aromatic herbs. This typically winter dish can be enhanced with precooked chopped chestnuts. You can replace the taleggio cheese with any other type of soft cheese, such as brie or blue cheese.

