name:
Chickpea burgers
ingredients:
Precooked chickpeas: 5cups(500 g)
Eggs: 0.65cup(105 g)- (2 medium)
Mustard: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Shallot: 1
Fresh ginger: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)- (to be grated)
Sandwich bread: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 3tbsp(50 g)
Hamburger muffins: 8
Salad: to taste
Tomatoes: to taste
Ketchup: to taste
Mayonnaise: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
The hamburger is the most loved and imitated American dish in the world. Its traditional version includes beef and the inevitable pairing with French fries and delicious sauces. Alongside this timeless recipe, countless variations with fish have also appeared in addition to the vegetarian version, such as the one we offer here: the chickpea burger . It is a second course to prepare in just a few minutes, blending all the ingredients in the mixer. The result is a chickpea meatball with spicy notes of ginger and the pungent taste of mustard. And like all self-respecting burgers, these will taste even better in very soft burger buns with salad, tomatoes, and sauces... how will you serve it?
To make the chickpea burger , first cut the sandwich bread into cubes. Then clean the shallot and slice it finely . Drain the precooked chickpeas from their liquid .
Pour the chickpeas into the mixer, add the bread , beaten eggs and mustard .
Add the shallot , grate the ginger and add salt and pepper .
Blend all the ingredients until you get a homogeneous and rather compact mixture . Place the dough in a bowl and add the breadcrumbs . Now form the burgers: take a portion of dough and shape it .
You should obtain a flattened meatball . Once formed, proceed with cooking: heat a burner on the stove, and when it is hot, grill the burgers for a couple of minutes on both sides , until they detach and have their typical grill marks. Now take the buns and fill them with the chickpea burgers, fresh salad and some tomato slices . You can top off your chickpea burgers with your favorite sauces.
Enjoy your freshly made chickpea burgers when hot. Alternatively, you can store them raw for a day in the fridge, or if you have used fresh ingredients, you can also freeze them.
If you do not like the taste of mustard, you can omit it by adjusting the consistency of the dough, adding breadcrumbs if necessary. You can enhance the burgers as you wish with turmeric, curry, replacing the shallot with garlic, or adding aromatic herbs, such as chives or rosemary.

