name:
Pasta alla cenere (pasta with Gorgonzola and black olive sauce)
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 11oz(320 g)
Gorgonzola cheese: 6.33oz(180 g)
Black olives: 40- (pitted)
Whipping cream: ½cup(120 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Time for lunch and still don’t know what to make? No problem! Pasta alla cenere (pasta with Gorgonzola and black olive sauce) to the rescue! This is a first-course dish that’s ready in a snap, in less than 20 minutes even, and gives a classic first course such as pasta with Gorgonzola cheese a tasty black olive twist. The addition of homemade black olive pâté not only gives the dish a special flavor, it also gives it a unique look. The specks of olive look just like cenere, or cinders, giving the recipe its name. Pasta alla cenere makes the perfect option for lunch or a last-minute dinner with friends. Get everyone to try it – they’ll love it!
To make pasta alla cenere , start with the olives. Place them in an immersion blender cup and pulse to chop roughly (2-3). You could also chop them roughly using a knife.
Next, bring a pot of salted water to a boil to cook the pasta and, while you’re waiting for it to boil, prepare the Gorgonzola. Remove the crust and cut the cheese into small cubes , then transfer to a pan together with the light cream .
Turn the heat to low and let the cheese melt, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon . Now cook the pasta; you’ll need to drain it 2-3 minutes before the time stated on the package . As soon as the pasta is drained and ready, pour it directly into the cheese sauce .
Add a ladleful of pasta cooking water and finish off the cooking in the pan, stirring frequently . Once the pasta is fully cooked, add the olive pâté and stir well to blend. Dish up your pasta alla cenere and serve with a good grind of black pepper. Buon appetito !
The pasta alla cenere can be stored in a glass container in the fridge for up to two days, but we recommend eating it immediately.
Pasta alla cenere can be jazzed up with fresh aromatic herbs such as thyme, for example. Or, if you’d like to give it a special touch, you can add some saffron to the cheese sauce. To make it even richer, sprinkle some grated cheese on top and broil to make it au gratin.

