name:
Soft lemon cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 6oz(170 g)- (about 3 medium)
Vegetable oil: 0.6cup(120 g)
Lemon juice: ½cup(100 g)- (untreated)
Lemon peel: 2- (untreated)
Baking powder: 1 ¼tbsp(16 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Butter: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
There is nothing to beat the wonderful aroma of a homemade cake cooking in the oven. Are you ready to bake your very own soft lemon cake ? You’ll be bewitched by the smell and its softness will win you over at first bite. The recipe is so easy to make that this will become one of your favorite store cupboard cakes, like coconut and chocolate cake and traditional or lemon ciambella cake. Soft lemon cake is made with seed oil instead of butter: The cake’s smell and flavor come from the juice and zest of the lemons it contains. We advise you to choose only the juiciest untreated lemons to be sure your soft lemon cake will remain forever impressed on the memory of your guests’ tastebuds!
The first step when making a soft lemon cake is to squeeze a lemon: You’ll need ½ cup (100 g) of juice . Then beat the eggs and sugar using an electric beater. When the mixture is frothy, add a pinch of salt and pour in the oil slowly .
Then add the zest of 2 lemons and the squeezed juice . Beat again to blend all the ingredients. Sift the flour and baking powder into another bowl
and fold the dry ingredients into the mixture a tablespoonful at a time . Mix again to incorporate the dry ingredients evenly . Now butter a 9-inch (22 cm) diameter mold and pour in the mixture . Bake in a preheated conventional oven for 50 minutes at 340°F (170°).
Do the toothpick test before taking the cake out of the oven, then let it cool and gently turn it out of the mold. Allow it to cool completely on a wire rack , then dust the surface with powdered sugar before serving your soft lemon cake !
The soft lemon cake can be stored under a glass cake dome for up to 5 days.
You can freeze the lemon cake after it has cooled down. Freeze it whole or in portions. Store it in the freezer for up to 3 months and allow it to defrost at room temperature.
Add chopped almonds to the mixture for more texture, or flavor it with ginger.

