name:
Trofie pasta with creamy zucchini and pancetta
ingredients:
Trofie pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Zucchini: 5cups(600 g)
Smoked pancetta: 5.75oz(160 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Basil: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The combination of trofie with pesto has now become a culinary treasure of all Italy. But at GialloZafferano, we love to experiment, so we present you with the recipe for trofie with creamy zucchini and pancetta, a combination sure to succeed. Zucchini and pancetta are two simple and versatile ingredients that balance each other perfectly in their harmonious blend of sweetness and savoriness. The trofie, a delightful pasta shape originating from Liguria, are ideal for baking with rich toppings, as in trofie with sausage and pumpkin , but also for enveloping creams and sauces, like in Trofie with Cod Sauce . For this reason, we've prepared a zucchini cream with a mild and delicate flavor, enriched by the bold and smoky notes of pancetta. As a decoration for this first course, a cascade of tasty pancetta and zucchini cubes will make the preparation even more appetizing, not only to the palate but also to the eyes... prepare the trofie with creamy zucchini and pancetta and expect requests for seconds and thirds!
Also try these variations of pasta and zucchini :

To prepare the trofie with creamy zucchini and pancetta, start with the smoked pancetta. Remove the rind , then slice the pancetta first into slices and then into strips .
Transfer them to a very large pan and cook over medium-high heat for 4-5 minutes, stirring often until they become crispy . If you prefer, you can also add the rind at this stage, as it will release all its flavor!
At this point, transfer the pancetta to a tray with paper towels, without picking up the cooking juices ; do not wash the pan, it will be used for cooking the zucchini. Trim the well-washed zucchini and cut them first in half lengthwise and then into slices about 0.2 inches thick .
Heat the pan again with the pancetta cooking juices and add a peeled garlic clove. If there's not enough fat, add a drizzle of oil. Pour in the zucchini and season with salt and pepper . Cook for about ten minutes over medium-high heat until they are well browned . Meanwhile, put a pot full of boiling water on the stove, which will be used for cooking the pasta.
When the zucchini are ready, transfer three-quarters of them into a tall, narrow container. Add the basil leaves , a ladle of cooking water , and blend with an immersion mixer . At this point, as soon as the water boils, you can cook the trofie.
Pour the zucchini cream back into the same pan , add the trofie drained to al dente , a small ladle of cooking water, and almost all the reserved pancetta .
Mix well , sauté everything to combine the ingredients and plate, adding the reserved zucchini, some pancetta cubes, and basil leaves . Your trofie with creamy zucchini and pancetta are ready to be enjoyed!
The trofie with creamy zucchini and pancetta can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you are not a fan of Pasta with bacon , you can replace it with speck!
If you want to try a delicious variation, add some confit tomatoes for color and flavor to the preparation, or add sun-dried tomatoes, Taggiasca olives, and a few dollops of fresh ricotta.

