name:
Chocolate cake
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 5.3oz(150 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: ⅓cup(30 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(150 g)- granulated
Eggs: 4- medium, at room temperature
Butter: 7oz(200 g)- at room temperature
Baking powder: 1 ⅔tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the chocolate cake , first roughly chop the dark chocolate , then melt it in a microwave or bain-marie and let it cool, stirring occasionally .
Cut the butter (at room temperature) into cubes and pour it into a mixer bowl, together with the sugar . Start the machine at medium speed with the beater and work the butter until it is reduced to a cream . Now break the eggs into a bowl and put one egg into the mixer bowl at a time ,
make sure the egg is completely absorbed before adding the next one . Continue in this way until you get a soft and homogeneous cream. Pour the now lukewarm chocolate directly into the bowl of the running mixer and blend well .
Add salt to the mixture . Mix the flour with the cocoa and the baking powder in a bowl , then sift it all directly into the chocolate mixture .
Use a spatula to gently blend the sifted ingredients into the mixture . Line a 9” (22-24 cm) round cake pan with baking paper and pour the dough into it.
Level the surface and bake in a conventional oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for about 40-45 minutes (if you use a convection oven bake at 325°F /160°C for about 35 minutes). To check the baking, test it with a toothpick: if you stick it in and it emerges dry, it means that the cake is done; if not, continue baking for a few minutes. Once baked, take out the chocolate cake and let it cool before removing it from the pan. Then place it on a rack to cool completely before serving.
Preserve your chocolate cake under a glass cloche for 2-3 days at most.
A cake so simple and good, you can customize it in many ways: try adding grated orange rind to the dough, white chocolate chips or even coarsely chopped hazelnuts... you'll see, every variation will be a success!

