name:
Baked pasta
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 21oz(600 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3tbsp- to be grated
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 10.6oz(300 g)
Pork: 8.8oz(250 g)- ground
Sausage: 5.3oz(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)- to be grated
Bread: 3.5oz(100 g)- soft inside part
Parsley: 2tbsp- shredded
Eggs: 2- medium
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Nutmeg: 1pinch
Tomato purée: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
White onions: 1
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp
Basil: 5leaves
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Type 00 flour: 0.6cup(80 g)
Butter: 2.8oz(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average

instructions:
Baked pasta is the Sunday dinner dish par excellence. Tasty and rich, this recipe will really please everyone! The version that we propose is very substantial and includes using tomato sauce (although there are versions which are plain, with vegetables or vegetarian), delicious meatballs, besciamella, provola cheese, parmesan cheese and boiled eggs, which, combined with the pasta, will create an unforgettable dish! When preparing pasta in the oven, it is very important to pay attention to cooking the pasta, which must be drained halfway cooked, to avoid overcooking it due to the long time it will spend in the oven which will give it a really inviting top crust!
To prepare the baked pasta , start with the mix for the meatballs. First take the sausage, cut it in half and remove the casing . Then coarsely chop the meat with a knife .
In a larger bowl pour the ground meat and add the sausage , the grated Parmesan cheese , chopped parsley and bread crumbs previously crumbled in the mixer .
Then add the eggs and season with salt and pepper. Work the dough with your hands until a homogeneous mixture is obtained. Cover it with transparent wrap and let it rest until the meatballs are prepared. Then, start preparing the sauce: in a large non-stick pan add the oil, a whole clove of garlic and a finely chopped onion .
When the oil is hot, pour in the tomato puree . Season with salt and pepper and cook for 30 minutes covered over low heat , stirring occasionally. In the meantime, roll the meatballs about 1tbsp (10 g) each and place them on a plate.
This mixture will yield about 70 meatballs . After the cooking time of the sauce, remove the garlic clove and pour the meatballs into the sauce .
Add salt and pepper and stir with a spatula. Let it simmer over low heat for 15 minutes. Then add the chopped basil leaves and continue cooking for another 5 minutes. Finally, prepare the eggs. Boil them for at least 8-10 minutes , then cool them under cold running water. Once they are cold, peel the boiled eggs and cut them into slices with a special tool or a sharp knife and set them aside in a bowl.
Cut the scamorza cheese into slices, then into strips, then into cubes. Put it in a bowl and set it aside. Now prepare the béchamel sauce: heat the milk in a small saucepan . Heat the butter chunks in a separate pan and let them melt over low heat. Turn off the heat and add the flour to the melted butter, stirring vigorously with a hand whisk to prevent lumps from forming . Put the saucepan back over low heat and cook the cream until it is a golden brown: in this way you will get a roux.
Then add the milk, which is now hot, and season with nutmeg and salt. Cook the béchamel for 5-6 minutes over low heat until it thickens, continuing to stir with the hand whisk . Transfer the béchamel into a bowl and cover it with transparent wrap until it is used to prevent forming a crust on the surface. Boil the pasta in plenty of salted water and drain halfway through cooking .
Take the meatball sauce, now ready , and add it to the pasta . Mix the ingredients well with a spoon .
Then spread a veil of béchamel on the bottom of an ovenproof dish and create a first layer of rigatoni pasta and meatballs . Spread half the boiled egg slices on top of the pasta
and half of the diced scamorza cheese then sprinkle with half of the grated Parmesan cheese . Season the first layer with a few tablespoons of béchamel sauce and proceed with the second layer of pasta and meatballs ,distributing it evenly over the first. Complete the layer with evenly spread egg slices.
Sprinkle with diced scamorza cheese and béchamel . Sprinkle with the remaining grated Parmesan cheese and bake at 180° in a static oven for about 15 minutes (or ventilated at 160°C for 7 minutes). After cooking, set the oven function to broil and leave for about 5 minutes. The baked pasta is ready: let it rest at room temperature 5-10 minutes before eating .
Baked pasta , if left over, can be kept in the refrigerator in a tightly sealed container for a maximum of 2 days.
If fresh ingredients are used for the preparation, baked pasta can be frozen, whole or portioned, either raw or cooked. For serving later, it is recommended to defrost completely before continuing with the baking in the oven.
Friends are coming over for dinner , but you don't have time to bake pasta right now? This can also be prepared in advance and baked just before serving. To speed up preparation, the meatball sauce can also be prepared the day before . What can be more practical than that!
One more little trick. If the taste of scamorza is too intense , no problem … you can use caciocavallo cheese, mozzarella cheese , or other cheeses of your choice.

