name:
Fried chicken with quick mayo
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Smoked paprika: 1tsp
Soy milk: ½cup(100 g)
Rice vinegar: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Wasabi: 1tsp- paste
Chives: to taste
Tabasco®: to taste
Dijon mustard: 1tbsp
Acacia honey: 1tsp
Vegetable oil: 1cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: 1.3cups(150 g)
Corn flakes: ¾cup(100 g)- unsweetened
Eggs: 4
Rosemary: 1sprig
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To make the fried chicken with quick mayonnaise , start by cutting the chicken breasts into strips , you should get some rather long sticks, then transfer them to a baking pan and season with salt, pepper, rosemary sprigs, lemon zest and juice ,
season with olive oil and spice with strong paprika , stir to flavor the chicken well, then cover with plastic wrap and set aside to marinate.
Meanwhile, make the mayonnaise: pour the soy milk into the bowl of the mixer, add salt, rice vinegar and vegetable oil , then mix everything with a hand blender
until a homogeneous sauce is obtained . Divide the mayonnaise into three separate bowls and flavor each bowl in a different way: flavor the first one with wasabi ,
the second with mustard and honey and the last with tabasco and chives . Mix the three mayonnaises well and set aside .
Now make the breadcrumbs: pour the cornflakes into the mixer, add a sprig of rosemary . Now you can bread the chicken fingers: prepare three bowls containing the flour, beaten egg and crushed cornflakes .
Take a chicken fingers, pass it first in the flour , then in the egg, and finally in the cornflake mixture . Bread all the chicken fingers and place them on a tray as you go .
Fry the chicken in abundant seed oil, brought to a temperature of 340° F (170° C) (to better monitor the temperature, we suggest the use of a food thermometer). Cook the sticks for a couple of minutes , then drain them on a tray lined with paper towles and serve the fried chicken hot with the three types of mayonnaises .
It is recommended to eat the fried chicken immediately or keep it in the refrigerator for a day at most. The mayonnaise can be covered with plastic wrap and refrigerated for 4-5 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can replace cornflakes with breadsticks or crackers. For optimal cooking we recommend frying a few pieces at a time, so as not to lower the temperature of the oil. You can flavor the egg-free mayonnaise with your favorite aromas, herbs, and spices.

