name:
Roast veal with potatoes
ingredients:
Veal sirloin: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
White wine: 6tbsp(85 g)
Rosemary: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Garlic: 2cloves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
What is the typical Sunday main course? The roast, of course! Oven roast veal with potatoes is a classic dish to enjoy with the whole family gathered around the table. Tender slices of meat served with gravy and the ever-present oven-baked potatoes are always a surefire way to please both adults and children. In this recipe, we reveal which ingredients to use, the right cooking time, and some tips to keep the meat succulent and flavorful, resulting in a dish worthy of even the most important occasions like Christmas and Easter! You will receive many compliments for this delicious oven roast veal with potatoes...
Also try the recipe for pan-fried veal roast or pot-cooked , or venture into other tasty variations:

To prepare the oven roast veal with potatoes, start with the potatoes: peel them and cut them first into slices and then into pieces about 3/4-1 inch . Transfer the potatoes into a bowl.
Finely chop the rosemary needles and cleaned garlic cloves . Add the aromatic mix to the potatoes, then season with salt, pepper , and a generous drizzle of oil .
Mix well and spread the potatoes on a baking sheet , ensuring they are not overlapping to guarantee even cooking. Bake in a preheated static oven at 390°F for 20 minutes .
Meanwhile, prepare the meat: clean the veal undercut, removing connective tissues , then proceed with tying it . Unroll a generous amount of kitchen twine and pass it under the horizontally positioned meat on the cutting board. Join the ends to form a double knot on the outer side: for convenience, we start from the left to the end . Now pass the twine around your hand twice to form a loop .
Pass the meat through the loop, then tighten the twine by pulling either the upper or lower end until you reach the center . Adjust the twine so there is about 1/2 inch of space between each knot . Repeat this process until the veal piece is completely enclosed .
At the end, make a final knot at the opposite end . Salt and pepper the surface of the meat , then massage it to season evenly .
Insert a sprig of rosemary under the twine , then move to the stovetop: In a steel pan, heat a generous amount of oil, then sear the meat for about a minute on each side at medium-high temperature . Do not move the meat; this way, it will seal on the outside (thanks to the Maillard reaction) and will release itself without effort. Use tongs or wooden spoons to turn it, being careful not to pierce the meat .
Once sealed, deglaze with white wine and let it evaporate completely. Now remove the meat from the pan, keeping the cooking juices, and place it in the tray with the potatoes (create some space in the center) . Bake the tray for another 40-45 minutes, still in the static oven at 390°F. Monitor the internal temperature using a probe or an oven-safe thermometer: it should reach 149°F .
When the meat is ready, remove it from the oven and let it rest for 10 minutes before removing the probe and twine . Meanwhile, quickly heat the remaining cooking juices in the pan . Your oven roast veal with potatoes is ready to be sliced and served !
It is recommended to consume the oven roast veal with potatoes immediately. If necessary, you can store it in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in an airtight container or covered with plastic wrap.
Freezing is not recommended.
Following our indications, you will achieve medium cooking, with an internal temperature between 140°F and 149°F. You can adjust the cooking time according to your preferences, keeping in mind that for rare cooking, the temperature should be between 122°F and 131°F, while between 158°F and 167°F, you will achieve well-done meat. If you wish, you can add some sage leaves and a bay leaf to the meat or potatoes.
If you prefer to accompany the roast with a more abundant sauce, follow our brown sauce recipe!
Vegetarian guests? Here's the recipe for the veg roast !

