name:
Creme Caramel
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1 ¾cup(450 g)
Heavy cream: ⅔cup(150 g)
Sugar: ⅔cup(120 g)
Eggs: 1cup(220 g)- (about 4 medium)
Egg yolks: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)- (about 1 medium)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: ⅔cup(150 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + infusion time (30 min.) and cooling time in refrigerator (at least 4 hours)

instructions:
To make crème caramel , first prepare the caramel: pour the sugar into a thick-bottomed saucepan and let it melt over medium-low heat by swirling it around the saucepan and without stirring . When the caramel has taken on an amber color, carefully pour it into six 3/4-cup (180 ml) molds placed inside a high-sided baking pan, swirling them to coat the base evenly . Set the molds aside and continue with the recipe.
Pour the milk into a bowl and add both the seeds and the vanilla bean , then bring it to a boil in a small pot . Once the boiling point has been reached, remove it from the heat and let it steep for half an hour.
Now remove the vanilla bean and add the cream , stir and set aside for a moment. In a separate bowl, beat the eggs and sugar, but without whipping them to prevent air bubbles from forming .
Pour in the milk and cream mixture in a stream, filtering it through a strainer , then mix again with a whisk to obtain a homogeneous mixture . Take the baking tray with the molds and distribute the milk and eggs mixture inside using a ladle .
Pour boiling water into the baking tray up to one third the height of the molds . Now bake in a bain-marie in a static oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for about 50 minutes. Once cooked, leave to cool and transfer the molds to the fridge to cool for at least 4 hours.
After the cooling time has elapsed, remove the crème caramel from the molds with a small knife and serve !

Crème caramel can be covered with plastic wrap and stored in the fridge for 3 days. Freezing is not recommended.
For an even more fragrant result, you can increase the infusion time of the vanilla bean and seeds in the milk by leaving it in a covered bowl in the fridge for up to 12 hours. Then you can proceed to heat it as indicated in the recipe.
You can also use lemon zest in addition to vanilla .

