name:
Strawberry cake
ingredients:
Strawberries: 8.5oz(240 g)
Eggs: 2(110 g)- (2 medium)
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅔cups(300 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)- melted, lukewarm
Sugar: 1cup(180 g)
Lemon juice: 1
Baking powder: 1 ½tbsp(16 g)
Strawberries: 9oz(250 g)
Strawberry jam: ½cup(160 g)
Heavy cream: 1cup(250 g)
Powdered sugar: 3tbsp(20 g)
Strawberries: 2

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 55 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the strawberry cake , start by melting the butter over gentle heat, then let it cool down. Separate the egg whites from the yolks of the 2 eggs required for the recipe. Beat the egg whites with an electric mixer until stiff . Wash and hull the 9oz (240g) of strawberries and place them in a food processor .
Pour in the 2 yolks , the sugar and the juice of half a lemon .
Add the flour and yeast . Blend it all together until a homogeneous mixture is obtained. Then pour in the melted butter.
Blend again to mix the butter with the rest of the ingredients . Now you can add the mixture to the strawberries and egg whites, gently folding with a rubber spatula from top to bottom to keep the mixture as airy as possible. Butter and flour a 9-inch (23 cm) round mold .
Pour the mixture into the mold , then bake the cake at 350°F (180°C) for about 55 minutes in a preheated static oven. Once ready , take your cake out of the oven and let it cool down. Unmold it. Prepare the filling: wash and hull the strawberries and cut them into slices .
Whip the fresh cream with a mixer, using refrigerated beaters and bowl if possible . Now that the cake is cold, you can cut it in half .
Cover the base with strawberry jam , whipped cream and strawberry slices .
Then place the other disc of cake over the filling , decorate the surface with icing sugar and garnish with fresh strawberries . Your strawberry cake is ready to be enjoyed!
Once filled, the strawberry cake can be covered well and stored for a couple of days in the fridge. The base itself will keep for 3-4 days under a glass cloche. It can be frozen without filling, once cooked and cooled.
Add white chocolate chips to the dough to make it even more delicious. You can serve your strawberry cake with a scoop of vanilla ice cream or slightly sweetened whipped cream. You can also decorate the surface with more whipped cream and fresh strawberries!

