name:
Quick Easter Colomba cake
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ¼tbsp(12 g)
Orange peel: 1
Lemon peel: 1
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 0.3tsp(2 g)
Water: 3.2oz(90 g)
Manitoba flour: 6tbsp(50 g)
Eggs: 2
Rum: 3tsp(12 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Candied orange: 3tbsp(40 g)
Raisins: 3tbsp(40 g)- soaked in orange juice
Peeled almonds: 1.4oz(40 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 1.4oz(40 g)
Brown sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Cornstarch: 1tbsp(8 g)
Fioretto corn flour: 1 ½tbsp(15 g)
Egg whites: 1.8oz(50 g)
Granulated sugar: to taste
Almonds: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + rising time for the dough (about 4 hours and 30 minutes)

instructions:
The Easter Colomba cake is the traditional Italian dessert for the holiday, a must nowadays for the table. Can you imagine the satisfaction of preparing a homemade classic or chocolate Colomba cake? So soft and fragrant, you'll be sure to impress your family and friends! It is hard work to make a Colomba cake, as it requires a good dose of patience and time. The recipe for the quick Colomba cake will allow you to make an equally fragrant and soft result in less time, to be enjoyed with your guests slice after slice. It is the sweetest way to complete your Easter menu!
Check out also these traditional Easter recipes :
To prepare the quick Colomba cake , first pour the manitoba flour and sugar into a standard mixer bowl. Add the brewer's yeast , orange and lemon peel, and vanilla bean seeds .
Blend at low speed and slowly add the water . Switch out the whisk with a hook and knead the dough for about 5 minutes. Then add the salt and knead for a few more minutes until the dough is smooth. Transfer the dough to a flat surface and give it a spherical shape .
Place in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for about 2 hours. After this time the dough will not have risen much . T ransfer it back into a stand mixer bowl . Add flour and knead with the hook.
Pour in the beaten eggs one at a time , then the rum . Add one small piece of butter at a time while kneading, waiting for each to be completely absorbed before adding the next . This phase is very delicat e a nd will take about 15 minutes.
At this point, add the cut candied fruit and drained raisins previously soaked in orange juice . Knead a few more minutes until all the ingredients are well mixed . Transfer the dough to a well-buttered work surface and fold with a dough scraper . With buttered hands, take the dough and place it in a bowl .
Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for an hour and a half . At this point, transfer the dough to a buttered surface ,
then divide it into two equal parts with the dough scraper . Spread one of the two portions, stretching it out with your hands, then roll it up into a cylinder . Place it inside a paper Colomba cake mold so that it occupies the center of the mold to form the body .
Do the same thing with the second part of the dough and place it inside the mold so that it occupies the sides to form the wings . At this point let it rise for 2 hours or until it is 2/3 inch (1.5 cm) from the top edge of the mold. Then you can start preparing the topping to cover the Colomba cake. Pour the hazelnuts, almonds and brown sugar into a mixer .
Blend it all together , then transfer to a bowl, and add the cornstarch and fioretto corn flour . Lastly, add the egg whites .
Whip until a homogeneous and creamy mixture is obtained . Then pour it over the Colomba cake and use a spatula to spread the topping over the entire surface .
Garnish with granulated sugar and whole almonds . Cook in a static oven preheated to 320° (160° C) for 50 minutes, then cover with aluminum foil and continue cooking for another 10 minutes. Remove the cake and let it cool before serving .
To preserve the Colomba cake as best as possible, we recommend that you wrap it carefully in plastic wrap so that it does not get exposed to air and dry out. You can also use a food storage bag and store it for a couple of days.
It is also possible to freeze the Colomba cake dough after the last leavening. When required, thaw it in the refrigerator, and then keep it at room temperature until it is ready to be given a form and placed in the mold.
Instead of raisins and candied fruit, use the same amount of chocolate chips!
For the topping : f ioretto corn flour is used to produce a "rustic" effect. The same amount of rice flour, coconut flour or similar flour can be used instead. The use of flour 00 is not highly recommended, but in the absence of other options, it can be used. If you use flour 00, it is advisable to decrease the quantity of flour and increase the quantity of dried fruit.

