name:
Ragu' alla bolognese
ingredients:
Beef: 10.5oz(300 g)- (minced beef, coarsely ground and mixed)
Tomato purée: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Carrots: ½cup(50 g)
Celery: ½cup(50 g)
Yellow onions: 1cup(50 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Red wine: ½cup(100 g)
Pancetta: 1cup(150 g)
Vegetable broth: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 3 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the Bolognese sauce , first take the pancetta. First cut into slices and then into strips , without being too precise. Then with a knife chop it well . In a pre-heated saucepan pour a drizzle of oil and add the pancetta .
Shell it well and let it brown. In the meantime, take care of the vegetables. Peel the carrot and chop it finely . Then clean the celery and chop it too of the same size as your carrots .
Finally, peel the onion and chop it . As soon as the pancetta is well browned , add the chopped vegetables .
Stir and let simmer for 5-6 minutes . Add the ground beef ,
stir and raise the heat. Let it brown without haste, the meat must seal well. Deglaze with red wine and mix again. As soon as the alcohol has evaporated, add the tomato puree .
Stir and incorporate it . Add a couple of ladles of hot vegetable broth .
Cover with the lid, but do not close completely . At this point the Bolognese sauce must cook for at least 2 hours. Check it every 20 minutes and add more broth as needed. After two hours, taste the sauce and season with salt and pepper . Stir again and your sauce will be ready .
You can prepare the Bolognese sauce in advance and heat it when needed. You can keep it in a glass container, well covered with plastic wrap, for a maximum of 2-3 days.
If you have used all fresh ingredients, you can also freeze it.
The variations of Bolognese sauce are so many.
If you prefer, towards the end of cooking, you can add a glass of milk or a pinch of sugar. It will serve to dampen the acidity of the tomato. In the past, milk was also used to dampen the wild taste of meat during cooking, but it is something that is no longer or rarely done today.
There are those who use a mix of pork and beef to get a fat mix at the right point. We advise you to use, in addition to the pancetta, the skirt steak or in any case a cut that is not too lean.
Instead of vegetable broth, you can use hot water or meat broth. It is important to add the broth as needed.
Wait until the meat is well browned before blending with the wine, we chose the red one but some people also use white wine.
Cooking times may also vary: we recommend that you cook your Bolognese sauce for at least 2 hours. You can prolong the cooking by checking it often and adding more broth as needed.

