name:
Zeppole di San Giuseppe
ingredients:
Eggs: 3- (medium)
Egg yolks: 1
Butter: ¼cup(55 g)
Water: 1cup(250 ml)
Type 00 flour: 1.3cups(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Egg yolks: 2
Cornstarch: 3tbsp(22.5 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Sugar: 0.3cup(70 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 ml)
Heavy cream: ¼cup(50 ml)
Black cherries in syrup: 6
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Makes: 6 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time for the pastry cream

instructions:
To prepare your fried zeppole di San Giuseppe , start by making the pastry cream to fill them so that it has time to cool. You can check the steps in the recipe for pastry cream on our website for more details. You’ll need to heat the milk and cream (or just milk) in a saucepan, along with the vanilla bean and seeds after extracting them with a small knife . Once it has come to a boil, turn off the heat, set aside, and keep warm. Lightly beat the egg yolks in a small bowl and pour in the granulated sugar , then stir to combine the ingredients, add the cornstarch , and mix well.
Remove the vanilla bean , pour a little milk into the small bowl with the eggs, sugar, and starch to dilute the mixture, and stir before adding all of it to the saucepan containing the milk .
Put the heat on low and stir continuously with a whisk until the cream has thickened . This will take around 10 minutes. Once ready, transfer the cream to a small, shallow bowl, and cover with plastic wrap . Leave to cool to room temperature before placing it in the refrigerator. Once cooled, transfer it to a disposable piping bag with a star-shaped nozzle.
Now move on to your choux pastry. Pour the water into a large saucepan , then add the chopped butter and a pinch of salt .
Put the heat on medium and stir with a wooden spoon to melt the butter . When the liquid begins to boil, pour in all of the flour at once and continue to stir .
The mixture should come away from the sides of the pan . At that point, turn off the heat and pour into a bowl. Spread it out slightly in the middle so it cools more quickly, and beat together, in a separate bowl, the 3 whole eggs, along with the yolk (the eggs and yolk should weigh a total of 6 oz (170 g) combined). Pour the egg mixture into the bowl with the batter a little at a time , stirring continuously with a wooden spoon. At first, it will be difficult to mix the eggs into the other ingredients, but with a little patience you’ll get a smooth, even consistency, and the mixture will be fairly runny and creamy by the end.
Pour it into a pastry bag with a 5-inch (12-mm) star-shaped nozzle . Heat the peanut oil in a large pan and bring it to a temperature not exceeding 330°F (165°C) (use a kitchen thermometer to measure this). While the oil is heating up, place a sheet of parchment paper on the work surface where you’ll arrange your zeppole , with plenty of space between them (this recipe makes 6). Use the pastry bag to pipe two circles of dough, one on top of the other. The doughnut you create should be around 2-3 inches (6-7 cm) in diameter . Next, cut squares out of the parchment paper, around the zeppole ,
so that you can pick them up more easily, and plunge them into the oil, which should have reached the right temperature by now. Put just 1 or a maximum of 2 zeppole into the oil at a time, with the side that was in contact with the parchment paper facing upwards. You will notice that, after a few moments, the parchment paper comes off very easily (use a fork to remove it, taking care not to burn yourself). Let each zeppola fry for a few minutes without turning it over so that it keeps its shape while cooking. After a few minutes on one side, turn your zeppola over and cook on the other side as well. The whole process should take around 5-6 minutes. Once ready and nicely browned, drain them with a slotted spoon .
Lay the fried zeppole on a tray lined with paper towel to absorb the excess oil . Repeat the frying steps for the remaining zeppole . Then take the cherries in syrup and cut them in half if you prefer . Sprinkle the zeppole with powdered sugar ,
place a dollop of pastry cream inside , lay a black cherry on top of each , and sprinkle with powdered sugar to taste. Your fried zeppole di San Giuseppe are ready to serve .
These fried zeppole are best enjoyed freshly made or within a few hours.
You can store them in the fridge for up to 1 day.
The pastry cream can be stored in an airtight container in the fridge for 2 days.
It is not recommended to store the choux pastry in the fridge.

Not recommended for freezing.

