name:
Hot milk sponge cake
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(200 g)
Eggs: 1cup(210 g)- (about 4 medium, at room temperature)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Sugar: 1cup(180 g)
Butter: ¼cup(60 g)
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(6 g)
Lemon peel: 1- organic
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Throughout the world it is known as hot milk sponge cake and its characteristic is precisely that of being fluffy. At GialloZafferano we have decided to give it a shot... actually more than one! The hot milk sponge cake should not be dry or excessively soft at all, but simply perfect! We did not back down between attempts and tastings, each time more and more scrumptious! The hot milk sponge cake we propose is a cake you will not want part with easily, if not to go off and prepare another one for breakfast or a snack! At first glance it might look like a pan di Spagna (sponge cake), after all, the sponge texture is common to both. But the big difference actually lies in the "batter", with the boiling liquid ingredient that characterizes it and makes the cake dough unique and special! If you have never heard of it, find out how to make hot milk sponge cake . We're sure you'll also want to prepare both its cocoa and caffè latte versions!
To make hot milk sponge cake , break the eggs into a bowl, add a pinch of salt and whisk. With the mixer on, gradually add sugar, to ease its blending into the mixture . When the mixture is light and frothy, about 10 minutes later, turn off the mixer .
Place a strainer over the bowl and sieve the flour and baking powder, adding them gradually while stirring with the spatula from bottom to top , to blend them in without deflating the mixture . Take a couple of spoonfuls of dough and set them aside in another bowl .
Heat the milk in a pan over medium heat, then add the butter : let it melt completely and bring almost to a boil, then turn off the heat and pour the mixture into the container with the spoonfuls of dough you had set aside . Mix well with a wire whisk to get a sort of batter .
Now pour the batter into the larger bowl with the rest of the dough , stir gently with a spatula and finally grate the lemon zest . Butter and flour an 8-inch (20 cm) round cake pan and fill it with the batter.
Cook in a static oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) on the lower rack (not touching the base) for about 35 minutes. After the first 25 minutes, transfer the pan to the center rack and continue for the remaining 10 minutes. As soon as the cake is ready (check with a toothpick that it is cooked also inside, otherwise continue baking), take it out of the oven and let it cool down , then take it out of the pan and place it on a cake rack to cool completely . Your hot milk sponge cake is ready to be enjoyed !
The hot milk sponge cake can be stored for up to 4 days outside the fridge covered with a glass cloche. You can freeze it if you want. Once prepared, the dough must necessarily be cooked, so it cannot be stored.
Let's admit it: hot milk sponge cake is scrumptious as is! But if you really want, once cooked and cooled, try filling it with chantilly cream or serve it with seasonal fruit! You can use almond or soy milk instead of cow's milk. Due to the type of dough, it would be preferable not to add chocolate chips. If you really can't resist this delicious addition, you can try pouring in at the last minute, about 1/3 cup (60 g) of chocolate chips just before baking the hot milk sponge cake.

