name:
Butter and jam cookies
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ½cup(180 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 0.35cup(70 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Orange marmelade: 1 ½tbsp(30 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 13 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. for the dough to rest in the fridge

instructions:
It's a quiet afternoon and you're waiting for your guests to enjoy a good cup of tea together, all that's missing are some inviting baked goodies! S-shaped cookies, pastries and butter and jam cookies are a classic for these occasions, but not only... perfect for children's snacks or for a genuine breakfast, these morsels with a sweet center are ideal to enrich every moment of the day with their melting texture and intense flavor of orange marmalade. Quick and easy to prepare, they will leave you with time to enrich your tea tray with other small delicacies, such as spelt and orange biscuits, chocolate-covered coconut cookies, eggless biscuits, or soft lemon and orange cookies, so you can create a fragrant choice of shortbread to go with your favorite tea! If you want to delight your friends with a British-style welcome, butter and jam cookies are the right choice, even during the Christmas holidays! Make sure you make plenty of them: they'll disappear in a flash as you chat away!
To make butter and jam cookies, start with the dough: in a bowl, place the flour, sugar and lightly beaten egg yolks . Mix with your fingers .
Add the butter at room temperature in chunks and knead until smooth and homogeneous . Transfer the dough to the work surface
and form a roll about 12 inches (30 cm) long, then wrap it in plastic wrap and put it to rest in the fridge for 30 minutes. After the resting time, take the dough roll and cut it into 3/4-inch (2 cm) thick discs, using a paring knife : this recipe will yield about 15 cookies. Now preheat a static oven to 350°F (180°C) and line a baking tray with baking paper. Work the discs between the palms of the hands to form balls , then place them on the baking tray, well spaced apart.
With your index finger, press lightly into the center of each ball to form a small hollow , then bake in the static oven preheated to 350°F (180°C), on the lower shelf, for about 20 minutes. Once cooked, remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool down, then add a teaspoon of marmalade in the hollow and sprinkle with plenty of powdered sugar: your butter and jam cookies are ready to be served !
Butter and jam cookies can be stored in a tin box or covered with plastic wrap for up to 5 days. If you wish, you can freeze the dough.
Fill these delicious cookies with your favorite jam or marmalade: apricots, strawberries, raspberries... you'll be spoiled for choice!

