name:
Baked salmon steaks
ingredients:
Salmon steaks: 23oz(660 g)- (4 steaks)
Potatoes: 6oz(170 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(25 g)
White wine: 2tbsp(25 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Parsley: 1tsp- chopped
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Do you have guests for dinner and little time to cook? Whether it is your in-laws, a couple of friends or a small group of colleagues, we offer you a simple and refined recipe that will make you look great: baked salmon steaks ! You are about to discover how to transform a salmon steak into an elegant medallion in a few steps. Thanks to the thin and golden potato slices on top, you will obtain a perfectly cooked fish, tender and juicy. A second course with an inviting appearance that you can combine with a cream and shrimp pasta, for informal evenings or with spaghetti with bottarga, for the most important occasions, for a menu with guaranteed success!
To prepare the baked salmon steaks , first remove the fish bones with kitchen tweezers and check that there are no bones left by sliding a fingertip on the pulp. Remove the backbone with a knife , then roll one end on itself and wrap the other end around the slice to obtain a medallion .
Tie the medallion with a kitchen string to ensure it maintains the shape even during cooking and transfer the medallions on a baking pan lined with parchment paper. Take a fairly regular shaped potato, wash it and cut it into thin slices with a mandoline, without peeling it: the slices must be maximum 0.04 inch (1 mm) thick otherwise they will not cook properly . Now take care of the dressing: grate the zest of a lemon in a bowl ,
add 2 tbsp (25 g) of lemon juice , oil , white wine ,
the chopped parsley , salt and pepper and mix well with a fork .
Season the salmon medallions with part of the dressing , then cover them with the potato discs slightly overlapping on one another , and sprinkle the potatoes with the remaining dressing .
When the medallions are ready , cook in a static oven preheated at 356 ° F (180°C) for about 20 minutes, then turn on the grill at 464 ° F (240°C) and continue cooking for another 3-4 minutes, until the potatoes are golden brown. When the salmon medallions are ready , remove the kitchen string and immediately serve your delicious baked salmon stakes !
Baked salmon can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days, but it is best eaten immediately. We don’t recommend freezing the baked salmon because it will lose its texture. If you prefer, you can freeze the raw preparation and let it defrost before baking.
The time it takes to bake the salmon may vary depending on the thickness of the steaks you use; ours were about 1 inch (2 cm) thick. If your steaks are thinner, try to use thinner potato slices as well to avoid risking them being uncooked.
You can swap the lemon for lime and the parsley for mint to give the dish a fresher, tarter flavor!

Q&A
How do I pan-fry salmon fillets?
Pan-fried salmon is one of the easiest things to cook. Just heat a little oil in a frying pan. When it is hot, put the salmon in the pan skin-side down, and turn after a few minutes so that it browns on both sides. Season with salt when cooked.

How big is a salmon?
An adult male salmon can weigh up to 80 lb (36 kg), while a female salmon never gets bigger than 44 lb (20 kg).

How many types of salmon are there?
There are seven species of salmon in the world, one in the Atlantic Ocean and six in the North Pacific.

