name:
Baked stuffed tomatoes
ingredients:
Cluster tomatoes: 12- (approximately 7 oz (200 g))
Vialone nano rice: 8.8oz(250 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Pecorino cheese: 0.3cup(40 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 0.3cup(40 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: to taste
Basil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
Recipes for stuffed vegetables are fabulous because in addition to the content, you can also eat the container. Bell peppers, eggplants, zucchini, artichokes... and of course stuffed tomatoes ! It is a single summer dish that is easy to prepare, tasty and aromatic. Stuffed tomatoes are filled with rice and a stringy heart of smoked scamorza cheese that makes them even more appetizing. There are several ways to prepare them and we are sure that you too have a secret to make the perfect stuffed tomato! Good both hot and cold, succulent, ideal to share with vegetarian friends, stuffed tomatoes are one of the best options for your summer lunches and dinners! Once you have tried this recipe, let yourself be tempted by meat-filled Costoluto tomatoes to tastefully switch up your menus!
To prepare the stuffed tomatoes first wash the tomatoes, cut off the top and set aside . With a small knife, cut the inner perimeter of the tomato and dig out the pulp with a teaspoon, collecting it in a bowl . Pour the pulp into a mixer .
Blend the pulp to obtain a juice . Place the tomatoes on a grill, salt them and then turn them over to drain .
Now make the sauce: in a pan, heat the olive oil with garlic , then, when the oil is seasoned, remove the garlic and pour in the pulp . Cook for 20 minutes over medium heat to reduce.
In the meantime, cook the rice in boiling water . When the pulp is almost cooked, add salt and pepper . Chop the parsley and basil (well washed and dried) .
Remove the pan with the pulp from the heat once cooked, and flavor with chopped herbs . Pour the resulting sauce into a bowl, add the rice and season with grated Grana Padano cheese and Pecorino cheese .
Mix and set the filling aside . Dice the scamorza cheese and stuff the tomatoes, starting with a couple of tablespoons of rice .
Add 2 or 3 cubes of scamorza cheese, and fill up to and a little over the edge with another spoonful of rice . The tomatoes are now ready to be cooked . Place the caps on another baking tray and cook them together with the stuffed tomatoes in a static oven preheated to 355° F (180° C) for about 50 minutes.
When cooked, the stuffed tomatoes will be golden brown on the surface , take them out of the oven together with the caps and serve them hot together, garnished with basil leaves !
We recommend eating the stuffed tomatoes immediately, but they will keep in the fridge for a couple of days if there are any left over.
Let your creativity run wil d a nd vary the rice filling with the most appetizing ingredients , such as bacon, sautéed vegetables, or aromatic basil pesto!

