name:
Spicy spaghetti nests
ingredients:
Spaghetti Quadrati pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Cherry tomatoes: 14oz(400 g)
Tomato paste: ½tbsp(6 g)- double
Tomato purée: 8.8oz(250 g)
Fresh chili pepper: 1 ½tsp(3 g)
Red onions: 2oz(60 g)
Basil: 4leaves
Extra virgin olive oil: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: ½tsp(3 g)
Black pepper: ¼tsp(1 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Tomatoes: what a treat! The versatility of this product, originally imported from South America, has been the driving force behind its success in Italian cuisine! In this recipe, the juicy and fresh "King of Summer" bends over backwards: we have chosen the sweet cherry variety for the spicy spaghetti nests , a juicy passata, and a concentrate to give a more intense flavor. By rolling up the spaghetti in this lovely presentation, you will not only envelope all the richness of the tomato, but also the spicy notes of fresh chili pepper in an irresistible combination for those who love dishes with a bite!
To prepare spicy spaghetti nests , start by washing the tomatoes . Dry and cut them into quarters . Set aside.
Then finely chop the onion and brown it in a non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil . Then remove the seeds from the chili pepper and cut it into thin strips .
Add to the frying pan and smooth out with a spatula . Add the tomatoes . Warm over moderate heat for 7-8 minutes.
Now add the tomato puree and season with salt and pepper . Add tomato paste .
Mix the ingredients well with a spatula and cook for another 30 minutes over very low heat. When cooked, add the coarsely chopped basil to flavor . Boil the spaghetti in plenty of salted water .
One minute before it has finished cooking, drain the pasta, and pour it into the pan with the sauce . Mix the ingredients well so that the sauce is mixed evenly with the spaghetti . Finally, plate the spaghetti with spicy sauce by creating three small nests in the dish: just pick up some of the pasta with a fork. While you roll it up on the fork, use a spoon to prevent the pasta from falling off. Then gently place the spaghetti nests on the plate and decorate them with a few washed and dried basil leaves. Your s picy spaghetti nests are ready to be enjoyed !
Spicy spaghetti nests can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of 2 days in an airtight container.
Freezing is not recommended.
Add a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil for a stronger flavor! The spicy sauce can be made runnier by adding a small amount of cooking water while the sauce is cooking.
The cherry tomato is one of the four varieties of the Pachino PGI tomato. It earned its name because of its round, cherry-shaped fruit. The "cousins" of the same category are the round and smooth Costoluto cluster tomatoes.

