name:
No-bake yogurt cake
ingredients:
Digestive biscuits: 2 ⅓cups(280 g)
Brown sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Butter: 1.6cups(170 g)
Natural plain yogurt: 4cups(700 g)- creamy
Isinglass: 1 ⅓tbsp(20 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(60 g)
Heavy cream: 1 ¼cup(300 ml)
Powdered sugar: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Berries: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Serving: 10

instructions:
Easy, quick, fresh and delicious! Does it seem impossible that a cake can be all of these things at once? Maybe you haven't tried our no-bake yogurt cake yet: it is a delicate dessert with a light taste, enriched with juicy berries. Whether you're an expert chef or not, it doesn't matter: this delight is made in a flash and doesn't need an oven or stove, so it's perfect for the summer season. No-bake yogurt cake will become your summer cake par excellence. Have fun experimenting with the most delicious combinations by varying the flavor of the yogurt used to make the cream , and garnishing the cake with fresh fruit or a more refined coulis: you will enjoy a new cake each time!
To make the no-bake yogurt cake , first butter and line an 8- inch (20 cm) springform pan with baking paper , following our instructions : how to line a cake pan with baking paper. Melt the butter in the microwave or in a saucepan and let it cool, then set it aside. Meanwhile, pour the biscuits into the mixer ,
then blend them until they become a powder . Transfer the blended biscuits into a bowl, then add the brown sugar and melted butter .
Mix with a spatula to obtain a pasty mixture , and transfer it to a pan ; press it well on the bottom with the back of a spoon to make the base . Put the base in the fridge and let harden for at least 30 minutes.
Now place the gelatin sheets in a large bowl filled with cold water, and let them soften for about 10 minutes . In the meantime, heat the milk in a small saucepan (it should only nearly come to a boil). Once the gelatin is soft , squeeze it and pour it into the hot milk over low heat . Mix with a whisk to carefully melt the gelatin . Set aside for a moment and let the mixture cool.
Pour the fresh liquid cream into the bowl of the stand mixer with a whip, add the powdered sugar and whip until frothy . If you don't have a stand mixer, you can also use a handheld mixer to whip the cream. Pour the yogurt into a bowl, then add the milk in which you have melted the gelatin, which will have cooled in the meantime .
Stir with a spatula to mix then add the cream that you have previously whipped , start with a spoonful of cream to dilute the mixture, stirring vigorously, then add the remaining cream by stirring gently from the bottom to the top .
Pour the cream obtained into the mold with the base that will have hardened in the meantime, level the surface with a spatula and put back in the fridge to harden for at least 5 hours. Once the no-bake yogurt cake is ready, garnish it with berries as desired and serve .
The no-bake yogurt cake can be kept in the fridge for a couple of days.
As an alternative to natural white yogurt , you can use other fruit or flavored yogurts . In this case , we recommend not adding sugar to the cream, as the yogurt will already be sweet. You can use fresh seasonal fruit as desired to garnish the yogurt cake , or make a coulis to be spread on the surface.

