name:
Chocolate custard cream
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 55%: ¾cup(100 g)
Whole milk: 2cups(500 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Egg yolks: 3oz(75 g)
Sugar: ¾cup(140 g)
Cornstarch: 1.6oz(45 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time for the cream

instructions:
When imagination strikes, we must listen to it immediately. This is the mantra we have here at GialloZafferano... and numerous variations of the basic recipes are constantly coming out of our kitchen, such as macarons or cheesecake.  We always find inspiration and new combinations. Today the cream is the focus; starting from the classic recipe , we have transformed into an even more delicious preparation: chocolate custard cream . The love for chocolate is so strong that we couldn't resist dipping it into the mixture of milk, eggs and sugar: the result is a delicious velvety, melt-in-your-mouth texture. We are sure that you will also love our chocolate custard; it's so inviting that you will want to prepare muffins, sponge cake or other pastries to use it! Enjoy it with a spoonful of whipped cream and some crumbled macaroons: delicious!
To prepare the chocolate custard cream , start by chopping the dark chocolate . Pour the milk into a saucepan, add the seeds of a vanilla bean and steep the bean . Turn the heat on and bring it to a boil. In the meantime, you can pour the sugar into another pot .
Now add the yolks and mix together . Add the corn starch and a pinch of salt.
Then, pour a little hot milk over the mixture to dilute it, taking care to remove the beans left in the infusion first, and mix. Then pour all the rest while continuing to stir with a hand whisk . Place back on the stove and let the cream thicken over medium heat. Once thickened , turn off the heat and transfer it to a bowl.
Now all that remains is to add the chopped dark chocolate and stir with a whisk until it is completely melted and mixed in. Your chocolate custard cream is now ready . You can let it cool by covering it with plastic wrap so that a crust does not form on the surface. Then you can use it to fill cakes and pastries, to decorate, or as a soft dessert.
The chocolate custard cream can be stored in the fridge covered with plastic wrap for a few days. Freezing is not recommended.
Using dark chocolate 55% guarantees the right sweetness and consistency of the cream. If you prefer, instead of vanilla bean you can use another flavoring like an untreated orange peel.

