name:
Danubio salato (Savory pull-apart bread)
ingredients:
Whole milk: 1cup(230 g)
Manitoba flour: 4 ¼cups(550 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
Fine salt: 1 ½tsp(10 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ½tbsp(14 g)
Cooked ham: 4.25oz(120 g)
Scamorza (provola) cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Whole milk: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Egg yolks: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note 3 hours and 30 minutes for the dough to rise

instructions:
Danubio salato (Savory pull-apart bread) is one of the most famous rustic foods of Neapolitan cuisine; together with savory babà , casatiello , and tortano , they are a must at parties. Its captivating shape recalls conviviality: once placed in the middle of the table, each ball must be detached by hand! These soft morsels hold a tasty filling to be savored bite after bite. The origin of this recipe is linked to two legends: the first one attributes the birth of the bread to the Austrian aunt of the famous Neapolitan pastry chef Scaturchio, the other refers to the time of the Bourbons with the marriage of Ferdinand I and Maria Carolina of Habsburg Lorraine and the culinary influences of Viennese chefs. The roots of this appetizing dish are unclear, but its delicious taste is certain!
To make the Danubio salato , start by preparing the dough in a bowl. Pour the flour, the crambled yeast and add sugar , salt and an egg .
Finally pour the milk and start kneading with a fork to mix the ingredients. As soon as the mixture begins to develop a consistency, remove the fork and use your hands and add a dash of oil . When it starts to harden, move the dough to the work surface .
Work it with your hands until a homogeneous mixture is obtained. Form a ball, place it into a bowl, cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for at least 3 hours. You can place the dough to rise in the oven while off, with the light on. Once the leavening time has elapsed, the dough will have doubled in volume .
In the meantime, chop the baked ham and dice the cheese . Divide the dough in half .
Take a half and roll it up to make a sausageshape . Make 10 equal pieces . In total you will have to create 20. Take each piece of dough, flatten it slightly and stuff it with the ham and cheese .
Seal the flaps (16-17) and form a small ball .
Oil an 11-inch (28 cm) diameter baking tray , place the balls with the sealed part facing downwards and arranged in a radial pattern along the entire perimeter. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise again for 30 minutes.
In the meantime, preheat the oven to 355° F (180° C) in static mode. Mix the yolk with milk to brush the leavened balls and cook them for about 30 minutes in the central part of the oven. At the end of cooking, remove from the oven and serve warm .
You can store Danubio salato cooked under a glass cloche or in a food bag for 1-2 days. You can freeze the uncooked savory bread before the second leavening and thaw it in the refrigerator to room temperature before cooking it.
Customize your Danubio salato according to your taste using different cheeses and sausages. To garnish, spread sesame seeds or poppy seeds on the surface before cooking.

