name:
Sicilian-style swordfish
ingredients:
Swordfish: 10.6oz(300 g)- sliced
Cherry tomatoes: 10.6oz(300 g)
Green olives: ¼cup(50 g)- pitted
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Pine nuts: 1 ¾tbsp(10 g)
Oregano: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 2
Cost: Low

instructions:
For today's recipe we decided to draw inspiration from 4 typical ingredients from Sicily, the beautiful Island of the Sun: swordfish, cherry tomatoes, olives and pine nuts: with these ingredients, we have prepared an irresistible Sicilian-style swordfish . A main course, typical of the pretty Mediterranean island, more precisely of the city of Messina where it is also known as Messina-style swordfish . The sauce, in dialect "ghiotta" or "agghiotta" , is perfect to accompany the tasty "piscispata" (swordfish), but it also lends itself well to enrich various types of fish and white meat, such as chicken or rabbit. We are sure you're very curious by now, so here is our version of the delicious Sicilian-style swordfish !
To prepare the Sicilian-style swordfish , start with the cherry tomatoes. Remove their stem, rinse and dry them, then cut them in half . Pour the oil into a large frying pan and gently fry a peeled garlic clove . After a couple of minutes, pour the cut tomatoes .
Sprinkle with a pinch of salt and a little oregano, and cook for about 10 minutes . In the meantime, cut the pitted olives into thin slices and add them to the sauce .
Remove the garlic clove and add the swordfish . Let it cook for a couple of minutes on one side .
Turn the fish , cover with the lid and cook for another 2-3 minutes . When the swordfish is ready, sprinkle everything with a pinch of black pepper .
While the swordfish is cooking, you can place the pine nuts into the pan and toast them for a few moments over a high flame, stirring frequently to make sure they don't burn . When the swordfish is cooked, place it in a serving dish and top with the pine nuts . Your Sicilian-style swordfish is ready. Serve it steaming and... enjoy your meal !
Sicilian-style swordfish is best eaten immediately but, if you prefer, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight glass container for up to 2 days.
If you used fresh ingredients, you can freeze it.
This is a traditional dish and every family has its own version. Customize it until you find the version you like best! In Sicily, some prepare it as we did, others add different ingredients, such as capers and raisins.
Once the dish is ready, intense flavors lovers place the dish in the oven to let the flavors and aromas blend even better!

