name:
Heart-shaped cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1 ¾cup(200 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: ¾cup(100 g)
Sugar: 1cup(200 g)
Butter: 7oz(200 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 10oz(275 g)- (about 5 average)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 0.3cup(30 g)
Baking powder: 2tsp(8 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Dark chocolate 55%: 1 ¼cup(200 g)
Heavy cream: 2cups(500 g)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: 3.5oz(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 1cup(170 g)
Water: ½cup(120 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(80 g)
Acacia honey: 1tsp
Powdered sugar: 3.5oz(100 g)
Water: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + rest time (about 2 h)

instructions:
Here’s how to turn a simple chocolate cake into a declaration of love. With the right mold and a romantic frosting dedication , your sweetheart will have no doubt... and the heart - shaped cake will be what makes you fall in love! Perfect for celebrating Valentine's Day properly , the heart-shaped cake has three soft layers filled with chocolate ganache and candied hazelnuts. A masterpiece of sweetness with your choice of toppings , with frosting and personalized decorations for a unique and impressive result. While it's true that a recipe for love does not exist, it is equally true that no one will be able to resist our heart-warming cake recipe!
To make the heart-shaped cake, first chop the dark chocolate . Take 3.5 oz (100 g) that will be used for preparing the dough and melt it in the microwave or bain-marie, then let it cool while stirring from time to time. Pour the sugar and butter at room temperature into the mixer bowl, and beat until a creamy mixture is obtained. Add the eggs one at a time , making sure that each egg has been incorporated well before adding the next.
When you have obtained a frothy and homogeneous cream, add the cooled melted chocolate and stir again to mix it with the mixture. At this point, add the salt and sift the baking powder and flour directly into the bowl .
Then sift the bitter cocoa and stir with a hand whisk to mix it all together . Pour the dough obtained into a heart-shaped mold measuring 8.3 x 8.7" (21x22 cm) and level the surface with the back of a spoon . Cook in a static oven preheated to 350° (180° C) for about 40-45 minutes. Then check if it's baked with a toothpick, take the cake out and let it cool a bit inside the mold before removing it and let it cool completely.
Meanwhile you can make the ganache: put 7 oz (200 g) of chopped chocolate in a bowl and bring 7 oz (200 g) of fresh cream to a boil . Pour the cream on the chocolate in 3 parts , mixing well with a spatula . Cover with plastic wrap and leave it to cool in the refrigerator for at least one hour.
After this time, pour the remaining 11 oz (300 g) of cream into a bowl and whip it with an electric mixer . Add the whipped cream to the cold ganache and fold gently from bottom to top to incorporate. Divide the mixture obtained into 2 bowls: one of 12 oz (350 g) that you use for preparing the filling, and the other of 11 oz (300 g) that will be used for the topping . Put both bowls in the fridge.
Move on to the candied hazelnuts: pour the hazelnuts and sugar into a saucepan and cook over medium heat until the sugar has melted and become an amber colr . Transfer the candied hazelnuts onto a sheet of baking paper and let them cool, then chop them finely with a mixer .
Now add the chopped hazelnuts to the 12 oz (350 g) of ganache for the filling and mix to obtain a homogeneous mixture . Put the filling into a bag with a smooth 1/2" (1 cm) tip.
Take the completely cooled cake and even the surface using a bread knife , then cut the remaining part horizontally into 3 layers about 1/2" (1 cm) thick .
Place the first layer on a plate and cover it with hazelnut ganache . Spread the cream evenly with a spatula , add the second layer and cover it in the same way. Finally, add the last layer of cake and leave in the refrigerator to set for about 15-20 minutes.
After this time, take the filled cake and cover both the sides and the top with the 11 oz (300 g) of ganache set aside for the topping, using a spatula to make it smooth and even . Put the cake in the fridge for about 30 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the chocolate frosting: pour the water and sugar into a small pan , bring to a boil and cook for 3 minutes .
Put 6 oz (170 g) of chopped dark chocolate into a bowl, then pour the syrup directly over the chocolate and stir vigorously with a whisk. Add the honey and stir again to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Take the cake out of the refrigerator and set it on a rack that you have placed on a pan, then pour the frosting over it to cover the cake evenly . Put the frosted cake in the fridge for about 30 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare the water-based frosting for decoration by mixing the powdered sugar with the water in a bowl .
When you have obtained a smooth and uniform consistency , pour the frosting into a paper cone and write what you wish on the cake . Decorate with edible flowers and serve your romantic heart cake !
The heart-shaped cake can be stored in the fridge for about 3 days. If you prefer you can prepare the base in advance and store it at room temperature, under a glass cloche , for a maximum of 2 days. The ganache can also be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator for about 2 days. If it is too stiff, simply use a hand blender before adding it to the cake .
If you wish, you can flavor the cake dough with grated orange peel. As an alternative to ganache, you can stuff the layers with pastry cream or diplomatic cream to create your own personal heart cake! If you prefer, you can pour a rum syrup over the cake layers !

