name:
Chiacchiere (Sweet fried dough)
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4.3cups(500 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(70 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)- at room temperature
Grappa: 2tbsp(30 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Baking powder: 1 ½tsp(6 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Egg yolks: 1
Fine salt: 1pinch
Peanut seed oil: to taste
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 40 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare chiacchiere , sift the flour together with the baking powder and pour it into a stand mixer fitted with a spatula attachment. Add sugar , salt, previously beaten eggs and grappa . Mix all the ingredients well.
Replace the spatula with the hook attachment , add the vanilla bean seeds and butter , then continue kneading for 15 minutes until a homogeneous mixture is obtained which should be firm, but fairly soft to the touch. If necessary, you can add 1-2 teaspoons of water. Transfer the dough onto a work surface, and quickly shape it into a ball .
Wrap the dough with plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for at least 30 minutes . Next, divide the dough into portions of about 5 oz (150 g) each and start kneading each individually. Flatten a first portion slightly with the palm of your hand , sprinkle it with flour and roll it out with a pasta machine set to the widest thickness .
Fold the short sides of the strip of dough towards the center , then continue to roll it out using an increasingly thinner setting on the pasta machine each time, until it reaches a thickness of 0.88" (2 mm) . Do the same with the remaining portions of dough. Let the rolled dough rest for a few minutes and in the meantime bring the oil to a temperature of 300° F (150-160° C). Using a pastry wheel, cut the dough into 2-inch x 4-inch (5 x 10 cm) rectangles and make two central cuts on each shape, parallel to the long side on each one .
As soon as the oil has reached the right temperature, dip 2-3 rectangles of dough with the help of a skimmer and cook them turning them on both sides until they are golden brown. Drain the fritters on a paper towel. Once they are cold, place them on a plate and sprinkle them with plenty of sifted powdered sugar . Your chiacchiere are ready .

Enjoy the chiacchiere as soon as they are ready, but if you want you can store them for 2-3 days in a paper bag.
Chiacchiere ( or frappe ) have an ancient tradition that probably dates back to that of frictilia, sweets fried in pork fat that were prepared in ancient Rome during the Carnival period; these sweets were produced in large quantities because they had to last for the whole period of Lent.
For flaky chiacchiere , the frying oil must not exceed 340-360° F (170-180° C). There are several variations to the chiacchiere recipe, including the replacement of grappa with other liqueurs such as rum, Marsala, brandy, etc. Many people like to add grated lemon zest to the dough, and the dough can be cut into different shapes: diamonds, squares, knotted strips or other special types. These fritters are usually dusted with powdered sugar or sprinkled with granulated sugar and more recently they are also available on the market with chocolate swirls on the surface.

