name:
Nutellotti (Soft Nutella cookies)
ingredients:
Nutella: 6.4oz(180 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(135 g)
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Nutella: 4.4oz(125 g)
Chopped hazelnuts: 3 ¼tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 25 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rest time in the refrigerator

instructions:
Are you looking for delicious cookies to enjoy during your breaks or a snack to preare for your children? Today we present Nutellotti (soft Nutella cookies), small cookies made with Nutella dough. They have a creamy center enveloped in a soft dough, really hard to resist: you will be pleasantly impressed with the sweet surprise inside! Each cookie is then topped with crunchy chopped hazelnuts placed on small, charming tufts of Nutella: enjoy with hot tea or coffee, and see how their taste wins you over at first bite!
To prepare the Nutellotti , place 3/4 cup (180 g) of Nutella in a stand mixer bowl equipped with beaters together with a whole egg . Whip for 2 minutes
to mix all of the ingredients well , then stop the whisk and add the flour through a sieve . Mix everything with a spatula
until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough ; shape and place in the fridge to rest for at least 15-20 minutes covered with transparent wrap . After the necessary time has elapsed, remove the dough from the refrigerator
and form balls of 0.5 oz (15 g) each with your hand , then place on a drip pan lined with a sheet of baking paper : you will obtain approximately 25 balls. Use your fingers to flatten the center of each ball to create a cavity .
Once this has been completed , put the Nutella in a star-shaped pastry bag and fill the cookies, making a small tuft in the center of each one . Once you've filled all the cookies ,
top them with chopped hazelnuts . Cook in a static oven preheated to 340°F (170° C) for about 10 minutes. When they are ready (the cookies will be quite soft) , let them cool on a baking rack. When cooled, serve and enjoy your Nutellotti !
Store the Nutellotti (soft Nutella cookies) at room temperature covered by a glass cloche for up to a week. Freezing is not recommended.
Nutellotti are really tasty and inviting sweets, but be careful to respect the cooking time, otherwise the Nutella could dry out! If you also wish to change the topping, powdered sugar can be used at the end instead of chopped hazelnuts.

