name:
Ricotta and spinach ravioli with butter and sage
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Eggs: 2
Egg yolks: 1
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Spinach: 8.75oz(250 g)
Ricotta cheese: ½cup(125 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Butter: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Sage: 5leaves

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 10 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 minutes to let the dough rest

instructions:
The simplest and most delicious of sauces, butter and sage, encounters the stuffed pasta par excellence, ravioli: this is how a classic dish of Italian Sunday lunches takes shape. Today we present you ricotta and spinach ravioli with butter and sage ! In fact, what could be better than delighting family and friends with a nice warm plate of fresh homemade pasta with a ricotta and spinach filling so delicate that it will win everyone over? From holiday lunches and dinners to delighting your friends at a Sunday lunch, these ravioli will earn you praise at the first bite... we know, no one can resist them! Not even you!
If you liked this recipe, don't miss these too:
To prepare the ricotta and spinach ravioli with butter and sage , start by making a sheet of fresh egg pasta for the ravioli. Take a large bowl and pour in the flour (you can start by using 50 g, or 5 ½ tbsp, less than the recommended dose in order to add more as needed if the dough gets too sticky) , the lightly beaten eggs and yolk must weigh 124 g (4.38 oz) : mix the ingredients well, kneading with your hands until you achieve the right consistency.
Transfer to a lightly floured work surface: continue to work the dough vigorously until it has a compact and elastic consistency. Shape the dough into a ball and cover it with plastic wrap so that it does not dry out . Let it rest for at least 30 minutes in a cool place, away from drafts to prevent it from drying out. While the fresh pasta rests, dedicate yourself to the filling. Take a non-stick pan in which you place the well-rinsed spinach. Let them dry over low heat covered with a lid .
The spinach must cook until it is very soft : at this point you can drain and squeeze it well to make sure it releases all excess liquids and thus keep the dough from getting too wet. Finely chop the spinach. Take another bowl and pour in the ricotta and grated cheese .
Flavor with nutmeg and add the chopped spinach : mix the ingredients well and transfer the mixture to a disposable pastry bag (you can cut the tip quite wide) and set aside.
Take the fresh pasta dough and remove the plastic wrap. Lightly floured the dough with semolina and divide it into two equal pieces. Cover one of the two pieces with plastic wrap and take the other one. Pass it between the rollers , setting the machine from the widest roll to the narrowest until you obtain a rectangular sheet with a thickness of about 2 mm (the thickness of a nickel) and 10 cm (4 inches) wide. Then roll the second piece of dough through the pasta machine in the same way. Place them on a work surface lightly floured with semolina. Then, using the pastry bag, place small dollops of filling on one of the two pasta sheets, about 3 cm away from each other . Spray or, if you prefer, brush the edges of the pastry with a little water: this will allow the two sheets to better stick together .
Lay the other sheet on top, making sure they match and stick at the edges : to avoid breaking the ravioli while cooking, let the air out between one raviolo and the next, exerting light pressure with your fingers from the center of the filled raviolo outwards . Then take a notched pastry wheel and make 24 ravioli of 4x4 cm (1.6x1.6 inches) .
As you cut the ravioli, place them on a tray lightly floured with semolina and spaced apart so that they do not stick together . Now bring a pot with salted water to a boil and add the ravioli as soon as it boils . While the ricotta and spinach ravioli are cooking, melt the butter in a pan over very low heat .
Add previously-washed, roughly chopped sage leaves and mix the ingredients . At this point the ravioli that come up to the surface of the water are ready .
Transfer them with a slotted spoon directly into the pan with the sauce to flavor them for a few moments. If necessary, add a ladle of hot water so that the sauce does not dry out too much and finish cooking. Finally, serve your ricotta and spinach ravioli with butter and sage to delight your guests !
Eat the ravioli right away or keep them, after cooking, in the fridge for a day at the most. You can also keep the ricotta and spinach ravioli uncooked in the freezer for up to a month. For freezing, you can proceed by placing the tray with the ravioli in the freezer to let them harden for a couple of hours. When they are well hardened, put them in freezer bags, preferably already portioned, and put them back in the freezer. When you need to use them, place them still frozen in boiling water and proceed as previously described.
We want to suggest a tasty and crunchy variant: try adding a generous handful of finely chopped walnuts to the sauce! You will have a dish with very pleasant crunchy notes! Simply divine!

