name:
Crespelle (Crepes) cannelloni pasta
ingredients:
Eggs: 3
Whole milk: 2 ¼cups(500 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(250 g)
Butter: 1stick- to grease the pan
Beef: 1lb- ground
Pork: 0.7lb(300 g)- ground
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
White onions: 1
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ¼cup(300 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Canned peas: 1cup(250 g)
Smoked scamorza cheese: 1.3cups(150 g)
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Whole milk: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Thyme: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 3tbsp
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3tbsp- grated

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + 3 hours of cooking for the meat sauce

instructions:
Rolls of stuffed pasta with a golden crunchy crust, wrapped in velvety béchamel sauce. At first glance, they might look like the traditional fresh egg pasta cannelloni . For crespelle ( crepes ) cannelloni pasta, we have instead combined the classic crepe mix with traditional Bolognese sauce , but nothing prevents you from trying other delicious combinations: ricotta cheese and spinach or ham and mushrooms, for example. Crespelle are a clever and appetizing idea to tastefully vary the typical Sunday family dishes!
Check out more versions of cannelloni and crepes:
Mushroom gorgonzola crepes
Wholegrain crepes with vegetables and feta
To make crespelle (crepes) cannelloni pasta, first prepare the sauce : chop the onion, celery and carrot for the sauté, then pour some olive oil into a large pan , add the vegetables and leave to brown for 5 minutes. Then add the ground beef and pork and brown over high heat for about 7-8 minutes.
Sweat with white wine , let it evaporate, then pour in the water and the tomato puree . Stir and continue cooking for about 3 hours or until the sauce has thickened.
In the meantime, prepare the béchamel sauce: heat the milk in a saucepan ; separately, melt the butter over low heat , then turn off the heat and add the cup (100 g) of flour all at once ,
whisking quickly to prevent lumps from forming . Put the pan back over low heat and stir until it becomes golden; pour a little hot milk over the butter and flour mixture to dilute the bottom , then add the rest, whisking all along. Add salt and nutmeg to taste.
Cook for 5-6 minutes over low heat until the sauce thickens . Let it cool and prepare the crepes: thoroughly mix the milk and eggs in a bowl.
Sift the flour directly into the bowl with the milk and eggs , then whisk to obtain a smooth, lump-free mixture . Next, cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes. This step is important to eliminate any lumps.
Butter a crepe pan (or a non-stick 8-inch (20 cm) pan) and heat it. When hot, pour a ladle of crepe batter in the pan, enough to cover the bottom: help yourself with the crepe batter spreader or rotate the pan to distribute the batter evenly. After about 1 minute over medium-low heat, you will notice a slight browning , the edges will tend to curl up and you can turn the first crepe using a spatula. Cook the crepe on the other side for about 1 minute. As you cook them, transfer the crepes onto a plate and set them aside. This recipe will yield 8 crepes.
In the meantime, the sauce will have reached the right consistency, season with salt and pepper, add the peas and continue cooking for another 5 minutes. Once the sauce is ready, transfer it to a bowl and dilute it with a spoonful of béchamel sauce .
Cut the scamorza cheese into cubes and take a 14x9-inch (36x24 cm) rectangular baking dish. Spread a layer of béchamel sauce on the bottom , sprinkle with breadcrumbs and make the cannelloni (filled pasta tubes): lay a crepe on a cutting board, fill the center with the sauce and a few cubes of scamorza cheese .
Roll up the crepe to create the cannellone (filled pasta tube) and place it in the pan . Keep going this way until you have used up all the remaining crepes. Once you have filled the baking dish, spread a generous layer of béchamel sauce on top ,
Flavor with thyme sprigs and season with a sprinkling of grated Parmesan cheese . Cook in a static oven preheated to 350°F (180°C) for about 10 minutes, then switch to grill mode at 460°F (240°C) for 5 minutes or the time needed to brown the surface. When cooked, let your crespelle (crepes) cannelloni pasta cool down slightly and serve .
The crespelle can be stored in the refrigerator for up to one day.
For a veggie version, simply replace the ragu with a ricotta and spinach filling. If you are pressed for time, you can make a faster sauce with sausage!

