name:
Torta della nonna (Grandma's custard pie)
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- medium
Type 00 flour: 2.65cups(450 g)
Sugar: ½cup(160 g)
Butter: 1.65cups(200 g)- cold from the fridge
Lemon peel: 1
Whole milk: 4 ½cups(750 g)
Eggs: 3
Egg yolks: 1
Sugar: 2cups(225 g)
Cornstarch: 2 ¼tbsp(35 g)
Type 00 flour: 2tbsp(30 g)
Pine nuts: 3.3tbsp(25 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + 30 minutes rest for the shortcrust in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare custard pie , start with the shortcrust pastry: in a mixer, place the flour and the cold butter from the fridge cut into small pieces , then turn on the mixer to obtain a sandy mixture: it will take a few moments. Transfer the sandy mixture to a pastry board, create a basin in the middle pour the sugar , and add the eggs in the middle .
Grate the peel of 1 lemon (preferably untreated) and mix the ingredients briefly, just enough time to compact the shortbread and give it the shape of a loaf, flatten slightly and cover with plastic wrap . Put the shortcrust pastry in the fridge to firm up for about 30 minutes.
In the meantime, make the custard: place the milk in a small saucepan, peel 1 lemon with a vegetable peeler, ensuring not to peel the bitter white part ; add the peel to the milk and heat it over low heat (it should almost boil) .
In a bowl, crack the 3 whole eggs and the yolk, pour the sugar , then mix the ingredients. When the sugar is absorbed, add the flour and the corn starch sifted in a sieve ; mix well.
In the meantime, remove the lemon peel from the milk and remove the pot from the heat to slightly dilute the eggs beaten with the sugar and dry ingredients with a little hot milk . Mix well, then put the pot of milk back on the stove and pour in the mixture with the eggs .
Continue to cook slowly and stir the cream with a whisk, as it tends to thicken (16-17), it will take about 10-15 minutes. Once ready, move it to a low, wide baking dish
and cover immediately with plastic wrap . Let it cool to room temperature. In the meantime, take the shortcrust pastry, lightly flour the work surface and spread it out until it forms a disc 1/10 inch (2-3 millimeters) thick (you can place the shortcrust pastry between two sheets of baking paper to roll it more easily). Butter and flour a 10-inch (26 cm) diameter pan; roll the shortcrust pastry on a rolling pin and unroll it on the pan .
Make the bottom and edges adhere by pressing with your fingers and eliminate the excess doug h w hich you will use to make the top shell. Poke the bottom with the prongs of a fork and pour the custar d w hich will have cooled in the meantime . Roll out the leftover shortcrust pastry and unroll the disc over the pan to cover it .
Using the rolling pin on the pan can help remove the excess edges (you can freeze the pastry that is left over and use it another time!) ; poke the surface then distribute the pine nuts .
The custard pie is ready to be baked! Cook in a static oven preheated to 320° F (160° C) for 50 minutes on the lower shelf; after, move it to the middle shelf of the oven and cook at 355° F (180° C) for 10 minutes. If you notice that the surface darkens too much while cooking, you can cover it with aluminum foil. Bake the pie and let it cool completely before sprinkling it with powdered sugar, then serve as a delicious snack or dessert at the end of your lunch !
You can keep the custard pie in the fridge for a couple of days. If you prefer, you can prepare the shortbread in advance , freeze it, and thaw it when needed .

If you prefer you can try the open version: sprinkle the custard with pine nuts and bake as indicated; before serving , you can sprinkle with powdered sugar! You can freeze the leftover pastry to bake another pie on another occasion!

