name:
Spaghetti poveri (Spaghetti with anchovies, olives and capers)
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.7lb(320 g)
Anchovies in oil: ½cup(100 g)
Red onions: 1 ½cup(80 g)
Salted capers: 4tbsp(30 g)
Taggiasca olives: ½cup(100 g)- pitted
Garlic: 1clove
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Parsley: to taste
Breadcrumbs: 3tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 3tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Can simple ingredients combined together result in unique and tasty flavors? Yes, they definitely can, and the proof is spaghetti poveri (spaghetti with anchovies, olives and capers). A first course prepared with a quick sauce made with taggiasca olives, capers, chili pepper in which the anchovy fillets dissolve completely, creating a sauce with a distinct flavor. The spaghetti is sautéed briefly in a pan with the addition of breadcrumbs which give a pleasant crunchy note and absorb the sauce better. The result is a dish easy to prepare, very tasty and inviting: ideal for a quick lunch or dinner, for those who love lots of flavor and something delicious but there's little time to cook. You can choose to give an extra touch to your spaghetti poveri (spaghetti with anchovies, olives and capers) by adding cherry tomato or cubes of sun-dried tomatoes or, why not, you could turn them into a delicious spaghetti frittata !
To prepare spaghetti poveri (spaghetti with anchovies, olives and capers), start by bringing a pot of salted water to a boil to cook the pasta in. Next, prepare the sautéed vegetables: finely chop the red onion and the garlic clove . In a large frying pan, pour the extra virgin olive oil until it almost covers the bottom and add the onion and freshly chopped garlic.
Leave to fry for a few minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent the sautéed vegetables from sticking to the bottom of the pan . When the water has come to the boil, pour the pasta in and let it cook for the time indicated on the package . Rinse the capers well under running water to remove excess salt and chop them coarsely .
Then add them to the sautéed vegetabmels , stir and add the anchovies . Remove the seeds from the chili peppers, chop them coarsely ,
and add them to the pan . Leave to cook over low heat, stirring frequently, until the anchovies have dissolved. If necessary, thin the sauce with a ladle of pasta cooking water. Toast the breadcrumbs: take a pan, drizzle with oil and add the breadcrumbs . Toast them by stirring until they are golden . Remove from the heat and transfer to a bowl.
Go back to the seasoning, which will be ready by now: add the taggiasca olives , mince the parsley and add it to the pan stirring to mix well.
Drain the pasta al dente, saving some of the cooking water, and pour it into the pan with the sauce . Stir and fry the spaghetti for a minute , then add the breadcrumbs .
Add a ladle of cooking water and stir well before serving . Your spaghetti poveri (spaghetti with anchovies, olives and capers) is ready to be enjoyed!
Spaghetti poveri tastes best as soon as it is ready, to better enjoy the crunchy touch of the breadcrumbs. If you have any left over, however, you can store it in the refrigerator in an airtight container for one day.
A tasty sauce and an inviting fragrance: spaghetti poveri is a real temptation! If you feel the need to complete it with a personal touch, try adding some toasted pine nuts or cubes of Parmesan cheese!

