name:
Sicilian-style chicken
ingredients:
Chicken: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- in pieces
Pomodori di Pachino (cherry tomatoes): 0.6cup(150 g)
Black olives: ½cup(50 g)- pitted
Capers in vinegar: 3 ¾tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 2cloves
Fresh chili pepper: 2
Wild fennel: to taste
Rose wine: 12oz(300 g)
Water: 12oz(300 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Firm and shiny black olives, savory Pantelleria capers, juicy Pachino tomatoes and fragrant sprigs of wild fennel are the Mediterranean flavors found in the Sicilian-style chicken , a sincere second course you will love for its genuine simplicity. A touch of fresh chili pepper lends itself to the strong and proud character of this dish, and its rustic appearance evokes the lavish lunches of a bygone era, when bringing meat to the table was a privilege to be reserved for important occasions, and the dish was enriched only by the smells and aromas of its land of origin. The succulent sauce accompanying your Sicilian-style chicken recalls the famous "agghiotta" of Sicilian-style swordfish, a fresh and equally appetizing seafood dish. To taste the delicious sauce at its best, don't forget to accompany the dish with some fragrant bread rolls: use it to soak up the last drops!
If you like chicken , you can't miss these recipes:
Chicken Adobo
Chicken curry
To make Sicilian-style chicken , wash and dry the cherry tomatoes, then cut them in half and set them aside. Remove the center of the chili peppers, cut them to extract the seeds , then slice them thinly .
Heat the olive oil in a pan, add the two garlic cloves and chili peppers and brown for a couple of minutes, then add the chicken .
Brown the chicken pieces 2-3 minutes per side over medium heat, then pour in the cherry tomatoes , olives , and capers ,
then add the wild fennel . Blend with wine , let it evaporate, then pour in the water .
Cover the pan with a lid and continue cooking for 25 minutes over low heat. Then, add the remaining fennel and continue cooking without the lid for 15-20 minutes over medium heat, stirring occasionally. After cooking, remove the garlic cloves and adjust the salt if necessary . Serve your Sicilian-style chicken hot .
Sicilian-style chicken can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 days in an airtight container. You can freeze the cooked preparation if you have used fresh ingredients.
As an alternative to fennel, you can use mint leaves to flavor the dish.

