name:
Fettuccine pasta with octopus and porcini mushroom sauce
ingredients:
Whole grain egg fettuccine pasta: 9oz(250 g)
Octopus: 1.4lbs(650 g)- (already gutted)
Porcini mushrooms: 12oz(340 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 14.1oz(400 g)- (quality perini)
Tomato paste: 2.7tbsp(40 g)
Water: 3 ½cups(800 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Thyme: 5sprigs
Garlic: 1clove
Dried chili pepper: 1- small
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: High

instructions:
We are accustomed to successful land and sea pairings, such as pasta in land and sea rigatoni or the delightful Pizza sea and garden ! Today, we want to tempt you with another experiment: fettuccine with octopus and porcini mushroom sauce. The meaty mushrooms, most sought after in autumn, meet the King of the seas for a dish with a strong character, rustic flavor, and satisfying taste. The sauce of pear tomatoes where you dip the octopus and porcini together with underbrush aromas such as bay leaf and thyme will be so irresistible that your guests will be lining up to mop up the sauce directly from the pan! Fettuccine with octopus and porcini mushroom sauce is a true delicacy to serve for your autumn lunches.
To prepare fettuccine with octopus and porcini, start by cleaning the latter: with a knife, remove the soil from the base , then clean both the stem and cap with a dry cloth . It's not advisable to wash the mushrooms as they might absorb water. If they are very dirty with soil, you can give them a quick rinse under a gentle stream of water. Cut the porcini into slices about 1/4 inch thick .
In a saucepan, pour a drizzle of olive oil and sauté a whole peeled garlic clove and the chili pepper . Add the sliced porcini mushrooms ,
and also pour in the peeled pear tomatoes ; add the tomato paste , the bay leaf ,
extend with water and, as soon as it approaches a boil, add the whole octopus (we used an already eviscerated and cleaned octopus) and let it cook uncovered for at least an hour. Adjust the salt .
Flavor with thyme leaves . After the hour of cooking , bring water to a boil in a large pot and add salt once boiling. Then drain the octopus from the sauce, transfer it to a cutting board .
and cut it into pieces of 1/2 to 1 inch . Transfer the sauce into the saucepan where you will dress your pasta and add the octopus pieces; but first, remember to remove the garlic . Continue to cook the sauce on low heat for about 10-15 minutes to thicken it (it should be fluid, not watery). Cook the pasta for the time indicated on the package ,
then drain it in the saucepan with the sauce , mix well , and serve it steaming garnished with more thyme leaves .
It is recommended to consume the fettuccine with octopus and porcini as soon as they are ready. If there are leftovers, you can store them in the refrigerator for one day.
Create this dish using baby octopus, shrimp, squid, and any other sea delicacy that you fancy!

