name:
Pasta alla vecchia bettola (Old tavern pasta)
ingredients:
Penne Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Datterino tomatoes: 1.65lbs(750 g)
Liquid cream: 2tbsp(30 g)
Vodka: 1.35tbsp(20 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Yellow onions: 1- 2/3 cup (approx. 50 g)
Oregano: 1tsp
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Parsley: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 3tbsp(40 g)- grated

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
How do you imagine a classic tavern dish? Here is our answer: simple, abundant and incredibly appetizing, like pasta alla zozzona ! Maybe that's exactly why pasta alla vecchia bettola (old tavern pasta) has earned its name, because it's one of those dishes that makes your mouth water just by smelling it! The creamy and velvety sauce brings to mind the recipe for penne pasta al baffo, but the protagonists in this case are fresh datterino tomatoes that are first blended with vodka and then roasted in the oven, to obtain a really rich and particular taste. Despite its appearance, pasta alla vecchia bettola (old tavern pasta) actually requires quite a long time to cook, but the result will be just as we imagined: simple, abundant and incredibly appetizing!
To prepare pasta alla vecchia bettola (old tavern pasta), first cut the tomatoes in half , chop the garlic and cut the onion into small pieces .
Take a frying pan suitable for cooking in the oven (otherwise you will have to transfer the content into another pan later), and add oil, garlic, onion , oregano and chili pepper . Stir and fry for a few minutes over moderate heat.
Now blend with vodka and let it evaporate completely, then add the tomatoes , salt, and pepper. Stir and cook for a few minutes over moderate heat . At this point, bake in a static oven preheated to 350° (180° C) for 45 minutes.
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil and put the pasta in just before the tomatoes are cooked, . After the cooking time has elapsed, remove the pan from the oven and transfer the seasoning into a tall, narrow glass, then reduce it to a cream with a hand blender .
Put the pan back on the stove, pour in the mixture obtained and add the cream . Stir and cook for a few minutes over moderate heat .
Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it directly into the pan with the sauce , stir and sauté briefly, then add grated Parmesan cheese and stir again. Finally, plate and garnish with plenty of chopped parsley: pasta alla vecchia bettola (old tavern pasta) is ready to be enjoyed !

