name:
Torta tenerina (Moist  chocolate cake)
ingredients:
Dark chocolate: 1 ⅔cup(200 g)
Butter: ½cup(100 g)
Eggs: 4- medium
Sugar: 0.65cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 35 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + cooling time

instructions:
To prepare the cake, finely chop the chocolate , then transfer it to a bowl in a pan with water (the water should not come into contact with the bottom of the bowl or pot in which you poured your chocolate) and melt in a bain-marie, stirring continuously . When the chocolate has melted, but is not too hot, add the chopped butter
and let it melt while continuing to stir . Since the exact melting temperature of chocolate is around 120° F (50° C), the butter should only be added when the chocolate has melted, making sure that it does not exceed its melting point (which is about 90° F, or 32° C), and thus preventing it from separating. Let the chocolate and butter mixture cool, stirring occasionally. In the meantime separate the yolks from the egg whites in two separate large bowls. Add the sugar to the egg whites and beat them until a firm, frothy mixture is obtained .
Set the beaten egg whites aside and pour the remaining sugar into the yolks , then beat them at a moderate speed until you obtain a clear, frothy mixture . While continuing to blend, pour in the now lukewarm chocolate and butter mixture ,
and keep mixing until a uniform texture is obtained . Add the whipped egg whites in several stages: initially add about 1/3 of the egg whites stirring with a spatula or whisk.
Then incorporate the remaining egg whites by gently stirring from the bottom up . Sprinkle in the flour and stir with a spatula, using gentle movements from bottom to top

until smooth and uniform . Grease with butter and sprinkle some flour a 9-inch (23 cm) springform cake pan (this will make it easier to remove the soft cake), and pour in the freshly prepared dough (17-18). Bake in a static oven preheated to 355° F (180° C) for 30-35 minutes (we do not recommend the use of a ventilated oven, as it could cook the cake unevenly).
Once out of the oven let your moist chocolate cake cool before removing it from the pan and sprinkling with powdered sugar .
Store the moist chocolate cake for 3-4 days under a glass cloche. The cake can be frozen.
To obtain an even more intense taste, sprinkle the moist chocolate cake with dark cocoa!
For a gluten-free version, use the same amount of rice flour.

