name:
Pasta and lentils
ingredients:
Ditaloni rigati pasta: 3cups(350 g)
Lentils: 7oz(200 g)
Smoked pancetta: 2.8oz(80 g)
Tomato purée: 3.5oz(100 g)
Carrots: 2.8oz(80 g)
Onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Celery: 2.1oz(60 g)
Vegetable broth: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Fresh garlic: 1clove
Rosemary: 1sprig
Thyme: 1sprig
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.35cup(40 g)- to be grated
Dried chili pepper: ¼tsp(1 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low

instructions:
To prepare pasta and lentils , start by heating up the filtered vegetable borth: you will need it soon. Then proceed to the preparation of the sautéed base: chop the onion, celery, and carrot then, in a large saucepan, pour the oil and add the chopped onion, celery, and carrot . Then add the peeled garlic clove .
Deglaze with a ladle of broth and let this mixture stew. In the meantime, cut the pancetta bacon into cubes and place it into the saucepan .
Mix all the ingredients well, then, using tongs, remove the garlic clove . Rinse the lentils under running water, using a sieve and add them to the pan .
Also add the chopped dried chili pepper , mix in the tomato puree , and add the sprigs of rosemary and thyme, which you can tie together with kitchen twine so that they are easier to remove later.
Add the broth until the mixture is well covered , then cover the saucepan and leave to cook over low heat for about 40 minutes until the lentils are tender. Remove the sprig of herbs and pour in your pasta.
Add a few ladles of broth to cook the pasta and leave to cook for about ten minutes. Once the pasta is ready, you can decide: if you prefer it more watery, add more broth until the desired consistency is obtained. Once the pasta is cooked, season with salt and pepper and add grated parmesan cheese : you can use half a ladle of broth again to help mix in the cheese. Let it rest for a few minutes before serving . Your pasta and lentils are ready to be enjoyed!
Pasta and lentils can be stored in an airtight container for 2 days in the fridge.
Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer to omit the pancetta bacon, use some p armesan crusts to give the pasta and lentils a boost of flavor. For an even creamier result , you can add a few potato cubes.

