name:
Tasty chicken salad
ingredients:
Chicken breast: 1.35lbs(600 g)- fillets
Green olives: 2 ¼tbsp(30 g)- pitted
Pickles: ½cup(60 g)
Red peppers: 1.35cups(200 g)
White celery: 1.65cups(170 g)
Carrots: 1 ½cup(150 g)
Gruyere cheese: ½cup(100 g)- (or Edam cheese)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Mustard: 1tbsp(15 g)- delicate
White wine vinegar: 1tbsp(20 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 g)
Mayonnaise: ½cup(120 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 4 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + 1 hour of rest in the fridge

instructions:
Fresh, genuine and colorful! Our tasty chicken salad is a boost of energy, perfect as a packed lunch or to serve during a buffet dinner with friends, but it is also a perfect dinner saver to prepare in advance for those days when you have little time to cook. Grilled chicken breasts and appetizing vegetable crudités, to be varied according to your personal taste and the seasonal availability. This delicious dish is complemented by a tasty dressing. This tasty chicken salad is the perfect recipe for a healthy and appetizing meal!
Furthermore, discover the recipe for our perfect dressing for all your salads: Homemade Italian Dressing
To prepare the tasty chicken salad , start by beating the chicken slices with a meat tenderizer , between two sheets of baking paper to break down the fibers of the meat without tearing it. Then cook on a hot grill and turn only when the meat is completely white and has the typical grill marks . Then turn and add a pinch of salt to the cooked part. Meanwhile, cook the other side for the same amount of time. It will take about two minutes, but the time may vary depending on the thickness of the chicken fillets, so avoid poking the meat with a fork or the juices will come out and the chicken will be too dry. When the meat is well cooked, remove it from the grill and season it with salt immediately, to allow the heat to melt the salt. Place the chicken breasts on a plate and let them cool.
In the meantime, clean the vegetables: take the pepper and remove the inner seeds, then julienne it , peel and trim the carrots and cut them into strips too . Slice the celery ribs ,
pickles , and pitted green olives crosswise. And finally cut the cheese (Gruyere or Edam cheese) into sticks .
In the meantime the meat will have cooled down, cut it into strips and prepare the dressing: put the mayonnaise in a bowl, add the mustard , white wine vinegar , salt and pepper.
Finally, pour in the olive oil, mix the ingredients and set aside . Now take a large bowl, add the chicken and all the previously cut ingredients: peppers ,
celery , carrots, pickles, cheese, olives and stir .
Then add the dressing , stir again and cover with plastic wrap ; let it rest in the fridge for at least an hour. After this time the flavors will have blended thoroughly and you can enjoy your tasty chicken salad .
You can refrigerate the tasty chicken salad covered with plastic wrap for up to a day . Freezing is not recommended.
You can substitute the vegetables with your favorite ones, e.g. peppers with zucchini or, in winter, with raw artichokes , lightly blanched potato es or pumpkin . If you do not like mayonnaise , you can replace it with creamy white yogurt. In this recipe we used white celery , but you can also use green celery. Just remember to remove the outer part with a vegetable peeler because this type of celery is stringier.

