name:
Pasta alla zozzona (Carbonara, amatriciana and cacio e pepe pasta)
ingredients:
Rigatoni: 3 ¼cups(320 g)
Guanciale: 1cup(200 g)
Sausage: 1 ¼cup(250 g)- (pork only)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 9tbsp(60 g)- to be grated
Canned cherry tomatoes: 3cups(350 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Egg yolks: 4- (medium eggs)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 6tbsp(40 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare pasta alla zozzona , boil some water to cook the pasta and add salt. Take the guanciale, slice it and cut it into strips . Then remove the sausage from its casing
and cut it into chunks . Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan and add the sausage and guanciale , leaving them to brown for about 15 minutes over medium-low heat, stirring occasionally.
When they are well browned , add the cherry tomatoes to the pan and cook for another 10 minutes with the lid on .
Pour the egg yolks into a bowl and add 9 tbsp (60 g) of grated Pecorino Romano cheese . Mix them well to create a cream . Boil the pasta
then add a ladle of the pasta's cooking water to the mixture of egg yolks and Pecorino cheese to thin out the resulting cream . Drain the pasta al dente and pour it into the pan with the dressing ,
mix well and remove from the heat. Pour in the mixture of Pecorino cheese and egg yolks , stir well, and mix in another 6 tbsp (40 g) of Pecorino before serving your pasta alla zozzona (carbonara, amatriciana and cacio e pepe pasta) !
We recommend eating pasta alla zozzona right away. It can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container for a day. Freezing is not recommended.
Like all the best traditional dishes, there is no lack of variations and preferences: there are those who use only pork jowl or only sausage, those who prefer tomato puree or add fresh cherry tomatoes, those who deglaze the meat with red wine and those who use Parmigiano instead of Pecorino cheese: the choice is yours! If you do happen to have some leftover pasta, don't hesitate to bake it into a gratin the next day!

