name:
Almond crunch
ingredients:
Blanched almonds: 3.3cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1 ¾cup(350 g)
Acacia honey: ½cup(125 g)
Lemon juice: - a few drops

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + cooling time

instructions:
Almond crunch is a traditional Christmas dessert made with almonds and sugar. Almonds are featured in various preparations in this period and almond crunch is among the sweets that best enhance their unique taste and crunchiness. Its origins are debated: it is made in many regions of Italy, especially in central-southern Italy, and all of them have their own tradition. There are written testimonies of almond crunch in a Spanish text from 1475, which suggests Spanish origins, but others suggest that it was created in southern Italy around 1200, as a derivation of a typical Arabic cake made with almonds, honey, sugar, and spices. In various Italian provinces there are events in honor of this delicacy: artisans compete to create beautiful sculptures, such as in Sestola (MO) , or in San Marco dei Cavoti (BN) . Here we offer you the recipe for the traditional version.
To make almond crunch , pour the peeled almonds onto a baking tray and toast them in a static oven preheated to 375° F (190° C). It will l only take a few minutes, so make sure they don't burn. In the meantime, make the caramel: take an unglazed steel pan and pour in the honey , sugar and a few drops of lemon juice .
Mix to even out the ingredients and melt over medium heat, using a kitchen thermometer to monitor the temperature of the caramel . Once the temperature reaches 285° F (140° C), pour the toasted almonds into the pan with honey while still hot .
Mix and wait until the temperature reaches 340° F (170° C). Remove from heat and pour the mixture onto a baking tray lined with baking paper, and spread it with a wooden spoon . Let cool at room temperature .
When the almond crunch has cooled down, place it on a chopping board and cut into bars before serving.
Preserving the almond crunch requires a few extra steps.
First: wrap it in oiled paper, similar to baking paper, and place it in a tin box or jar with a lid when it is cold.
Second: Place the container in a cool, dry place! The caramelized sugar tends to melt in the heat. It can be stored for quite a long time, even a few months, or at least until the temperature gets too hot and the sugar tends to melt.
Lemon is necessary to avoid the crystallization of sugar. Honey, instead of glucose, is used to improve its resistance to moisture. To remove the caramel from the pan, just add a little water and bring everything to a boil, so the mixture will be more fluid!

