name:
Zuccotto di pandoro (Christmas sponge cake dessert)
ingredients:
Pandoro cake: 7oz(200 g)- thickly-sliced
Powdered sugar: to taste- for dusting
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1lb(450 g)
Dark chocolate: 0.65cup(100 g)
Oranges: 1- (peel and juice)
Powdered sugar: 0.65cup(100 g)
Dark chocolate: ¾cup(140 g)
Heavy cream: ¾cup(140 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 5 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 2 hours for the cake to firm up

instructions:
Are guests coming to your house again this year for the holidays? Do you already know what recipe will tempt them the most besides the classic pandoro and panettone ? We can help you make the difficult choice: pandoro sponge cake ! The tempting chocolate coating on the outside hides a soft pandoro cake inside, with a delicate and fragrant ricotta and orange cream. Have your guests sit down and bring to the table this beautiful pandoro sponge cake, a variant of the classic sponge cake, which is perfect for the holidays. If you want to make it even more beautiful, then dust the surface with a snowfall of white powdered sugar just before serving!
If you are looking for other ways to use pandoro, have a look to the following recipes:
Pandoro cake
Pandoro tree
Pandoro tiramisù
Pandoro tiramisù with baileys
Pandoro tiramisù with wild berries
Pandoro stars with eggnog cream
To prepare the pandoro sponge cake , start with the filling. If your ricotta is too rich in whey, then drain it in a colander and store it in the refrigerator for about an hour. After the time has passed, change or dry the bowl and strain the ricotta cheese . Then add the powdered sugar and mix it in . Coarsely chop the dark chocolate
and add it to the ricotta . After stirring, finish the mixture by grating the orange peel (set the orange aside, because you will need the juice later) . Stir one last time and set the filling aside.
Now cut the pandoro cake: eliminate the top slice (the canopy), then cut four slices about 2/5 inch (1 cm) thick , setting aside the smallest piece, which will be served whole . Divide the two central slices in half ,
while the last one, the largest of the four, can be cut to obtain a disc: just use a pastry ring with a diameter of 4 1/2 inches (11.5 cm) . Take a semi-spherical sponge cake mold, place the smallest slice left whole on the bottom. Then coat the walls of the mold so the tips of the slices cut in half fit together . If necessary, you can rearrange them. Pour the ricotta cream inside
and level the surface carefully. Then close it with the round slice you cut earlier, press gently to compact everything together and wrap with plastic wrap. Let rest in the refrigerator for 2 hours .
After this time has passed, take the pandoro sponge cake out, remove the wrap and turn it upside down carefully on a grill placed on a plate . Squeeze and filter the orange juice: only 2 tbsp (30 g) are needed. Brush the surface of the zuccotto then put it back in the refrigerator without covering it .
In the meantime, prepare the topping: cut the chocolate and melt it in a bain-marie . When it has melted, turn off the heat and add the cream, pouring it little by little and stirring continuously . Then take your sponge cake and cover it with the chocolate cream, letting it drip on the plate placed under the grill .
Use a spatula to even out the thickness and sprinkle with a little powered sugar, if desider : your pandoro sponge cake is ready to be served !
Pandoro sponge cake can be kept in the refrigerator for 2-3 day, ideally covered with a glass cloche. Freezing is not recommended.
If you do not like orange juice you can replace it with another type of juice or milk, perhaps flavored with cinnamon! If you prefer alternatives to chocolate, opt for diced candied fruit or chopped nuts. Mascarpone cheese can also be used instead of ricotta cheese, but be careful, it could be a bit too sweet!

