name:
Potato gateau
ingredients:
Yellow potatoes: 4.4lbs(1.5 kg)- old
Prosciutto cotto: 8.8oz(250 g)- (a thick slice)
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 250- smoked (or Campania provola)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.5oz(70 g)- to grate
Eggs: 3- medium
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Butter: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the potato gateau, start with the potatoes: place them in a large pot and cover with plenty of water . From the moment it starts boiling, let them cook for about 40-50 minutes or until you can easily pierce the center with a fork . Drain the potatoes and mash them while still hot: cut them in half and place them skin-side up inside a potato ricer .
Mash them and gradually remove the skin that will stick to the ricer. While the potatoes cool down, cut the cooked ham and the smoked provola into cubes of about 1.5 cm (approximately 0.6 inches).
Once the mashed potatoes have cooled down, add the eggs and grated cheese , the cubes of ham and smoked mozzarella , salt and pepper .
Knead by hand until all the ingredients are well mixed ; if necessary, adjust the consistency by adding more milk if it’s too dry, or more grated cheese if it’s too moist. Butter a 12x9 inch baking dish and sprinkle with breadcrumbs . Then transfer the potato gateau inside and level the surface .
Sprinkle the surface with more breadcrumbs and abundant butter flakes . Bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F (200°C) for about 40 minutes, then turn on the grill and let it brown further for another 5 minutes . Take your potato gateau out of the oven and let it rest for about 10 minutes before serving it !
The potato gateau can be stored in the refrigerator for 2-3 days. You can also freeze it either cooked or uncooked: in both cases, just let it thaw overnight in the fridge.
The potato gateau is a dish that easily transforms into a fridge-clear-out: if you have other cheeses or cold cuts, even if not cubed, it's the time to use them to make the dish even richer!
If you prefer, you can replace Parmesan with Pecorino, or cooked ham with Neapolitan salami.
In some versions, a bit of chopped parsley is added, which gives freshness and strongly resembles Neapolitan croquettes .
Potatoes stored in a cool, dark place, after 2-3 months from harvest, can already be defined as old potatoes. They appear a bit dusty, the flesh is no longer smooth but slightly wrinkled and thick. They are the perfect type for mash, gnocchi, and potato gateau because they have lost part of their moisture content, resulting in a more compact structure with a higher starch concentration, making them ideal for mashing.
A traditional potato gateau is prepared with potatoes native to Campania, like those from Camposano, or from the nearby Avezzano (Abruzzo)!

