name:
Roasted potatoes
ingredients:
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- yellow-paste
Rosemary: 2sprigs
Garlic: 2cloves
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Thyme: 2sprigs
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 5 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
One leads to another, but it's not the cherries... it's the potatoes! Today we will delight you with a timeless classic of home cooking, baked potatoes . Impossible not to love, this typical side dish looks good with everything: meat or fish, it's your choice, the only rule is that the baked potatoes are golden and crispy, in a word irresistible! Like all recipes that appear simple at first glance, this one can also hide some pitfalls in the preparation. Everyone has a secret for perfectly baked potatoes: there are those who run them under cold running water or soak them to eliminate the starch, those who bake them in a static oven first covered with aluminum foil and then uncover the pan, those who still measure the slices or cubes by the inch to make them all the same and to ensure uniform cooking. Would you like to know what our tricks are for receiving applause at the table? We are happy to share them with you so you can enjoy making a tasty side dish that everyone always likes! To flavor the baked potatoes we have chosen rosemary and thyme, indispensable evergreen herbs
To make the baked potatoes , wash and peel the potatoes with a vegetable peeler, divide them in half and then into quarters , then cut them into small cubes .
Bring plenty of water to a boil in a pot and then boil the potato cubes for 5 minutes , after this time drain the potatoes with a skimmer and transfer them to a bowl. Flavor with fresh thyme leaves ,

season with the extra virgin olive oil , add salt and stir with a spoon . Preheat a ventilated oven to 400° F (200° C) heating up the empty baking pan inside that will be used for cooking the potatoes. When the oven has reached the desired temperature, remove the baking pan using oven mitts to avoid burning yourself and drizzle oil on the bottom of the pan.

Add the potatoes, rosemary sprigs and two whole cloves of garlic without peeling them . Bake the potatoes at 400° F (200° C) for 1 hour or until the potatoes are crispy and golden. At least every 20 minutes, gently mix the potatoes to ensure even cooking. Once cooked, take your baked potatoes out of the oven , remove the garlic cloves, let the potatoes cool and then bring them to the table immediately!

It is preferable to eat the baked potatoes immediately so as to preserve their crunchiness, if they are left over you can keep them in the refrigerator in an airtight container for one day at most and then heat them in the oven before serving. Freezing is not recommended.
Add to your baked potatoes some pieces of bacon or red onions. The result will be amazing!

