name:
Potato croquettes
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Egg yolks: 2tbsp(30 g)
Nutmeg: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¾cup(100 g)- grated
Eggs: 2(130 g)- (medium size)
Breadcrumbs: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Very low
Note plus the time needed to boil the potatoes

instructions:
Potato croquettes are irresistible, timeless appetizers you can indulge in from time to time, part of the big family of finger food, the undisputed stars of buffets. Needless to say, once brought to the table, potato croquettes disappear in a flash: with their crispy, golden breading outside and soft filling they've always been loved by kids and grownups alike! Like every great kitchen classic, croquettes have inspired appetizing variations such as potato and salmon croquettes with yogurt sauce, potato and speck croquettes or even the colorful beet croquettes. Potato croquettes are a simple dish that requires a few but important tricks, first of all the choice of potatoes: firm red potatoes are perfect to obtain a dry mash that gives the best results with every kind of cooking. All other secrets will be revealed in our recipe for these tempting little delights, come and discover it!
To prepare potato croquettes, wash the potatoes under running water to remove soil residue , place them unpeeled in a large saucepan, cover with water and bring to a boil : to cook them evenly, use similar sized potatoes as much as possible. It will take about 40 minutes if you boil them or about half that time with a pressure cooker. Once ready, let them cool down slightly (just enough to be able to handle them) and peel them .
Pass them through a potato masher to obtain a puree while they are still hot ; in a separate bowl, beat the yolks with pepper and salt then add them to the potato puree
flavor with grated nutmeg and season with grated cheese , stir with a spoon to mix the ingredients to obtain a soft and dry mixture. Take about 1/4 cup of mixture and shape into a croquette,
giving it a cylindrical shape, slightly pressing both ends. As you make the croquettes, place them on a tray covered with baking paper . This recipe will yield about 30 croquettes. Once you've used up the mixture, proceed to bread the croquettes: beat the two eggs in one bowl and place the breadcrumbs in another. Pass the croquettes first in the egg , then in the breadcrumbs .
Place the croquettes on a tray covered with baking paper. Once all the croquettes are finished, heat plenty of peanut oil in a medium size pan until it reaches 350°F (180-190°C) (we recommend the use of a kitchen thermometer for best results). Dip 3-4 croquettes in the oil at a time so as not to lower the temperature of the oil too much . Cook them by turning them over with a skimmer until they are well browned on all sides. Drain them and put them on a plate lined with absorbent paper to drain excess oil . Serve the potato croquettes while they're still hot!
The croquettes taste best right away, but you can freeze them uncooked and fry them directly when they are still frozen, making sure to keep the oil at a slightly lower temperature.
If you have any doubts about the type of potatoes to use, buy the red type for best results, as their firmness and compactness help prevent overcooking once boiled, fried or baked. If you want croquettes that hold their shape and are very crunchy, you can bread them twice: after the first breading, pass them again in the beaten egg and breadcrumbs. An idea for an even more appetizing version? You can stuff each piece with a chunk of cheese that will melt during cooking but will not release water (like plain or smoked scamorza cheese).

