name:
Ricotta Cheese Crostata (Tart)
ingredients:
Powdered sugar: 1.1cups(140 g)
Type 00 flour: 3cups(350 g)
Egg yolks: 2
Butter: 1cup(220 g)- cold from fridge
Lemon peel: 1
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Sugar: 1cup(175 g)
Dark chocolate chips: ¼cup(40 g)
Orange peel: 1
Cinnamon powder: 1pinch

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 10 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average
Note + time to rest the shortcrust pastry and to drain the ricotta cheese

instructions:
Shortcrust pastry, a delicious and fragrant cream with ricotta cheese and irresistible chocolate drops! Here are the ingredients needed to prepare today's recipe: ricotta tart. A simple and homemade dessert to be enjoyed at any time of the day, especially for snacks! So if you have friends coming over or kids asking for a sweet reward, this is the perfect dessert for them! Don't be surprised if it goes like hot cakes, ricotta cheese crostata tart is really unbeatable!
If you are looking for a gluten free ricotta cheese cake, have a look to this recipe:
To prepare the Ricotta Cheese Crostata tart, start with the ricotta pie and leave it to drain in a strainer for a couple of hours depending on how rich it is in whey. Then proceed with the shortcrust pastry: put the flour into a mixer together with the cold butter cut into small pieces and beat on low for a few moments. Pour the grainy mixture onto the worktop and add the powdered sugar ,
in the middle make a crater with your hands and pour the egg yolks into it . Grate the lemon peel and knead until obtaining a smooth and homogeneous dough .
which you can wrap and allow to rest in the refrigerator for at least half an hour . Meanwhile, make the cream. In a mixer pour the egg yolks together with the sugar and grate the orange peel , then add the cinnamon powder .
Lastly, add the ricotta and blend until smooth ; set aside. Take the shortcrust dough and remove the wrap, beat it with a rolling pin to soften it a little bit, then divide it into two parts, one double the size of the other, and start rolling the larger one between two sheets of baking paper .
You will obtain a disc of about 1/16" (3-4 mm) and place it in a 9" (23 cm) pie pan already buttered and floured . Use your fingers to carefully arrange it so that the dough fits the baking pan. If it breaks in some places, don't worry, just patch them with pieces of the dough. Level the edges on the top with the rolling pin .
and then pierce the bottom with a fork . In the middle pour the ricotta cream and carefully level it with a spatula .
Then sprinkle the surface with chocolate chips and finally roll out the second layer of shortcrust pastry to obtain a disc which you will put on top . Level the tart by rolling with the rolling pin so as to eliminate the excess shortbread (which you can freeze and then use on another occasion perhaps to make biscotti!) and let the air escape .
To finish, pierce the surface with a knife blade , more useful than the fork in this case, and bake in a preheated oven, in static mode at 340° F (175° C) for 70 minutes: make sure to put the pan onto a drip pan and cook it on the lower rack. Halfway through the cooking process, re-pierce the holes you created on the top with a knife and then continue cooking. Once baked, take out the ricotta cheese crostata tart and let it cool completely before enjoying it !
Once baked, you can store the ricotta tart in the fridge, covering it with transparent wrap, for 2-3 days. If you want you can also prepare the shortcrust pastry a day in advance and use it when needed.
If you loved chocolate chips, next time try using milk chocolate and why not, even white chocolate, chopped with a knife. Try also some raisins soaked in water before adding them or in rum, for a more intense aftertaste.

