name:
Torta al limone (Lemon cake)
ingredients:
Cornstarch: 1cup(120 g)
Type 00 flour: 1cup(120 g)
Butter: 1cup(250 g)- softened at room temperature
Sugar: 1 ¼cup(250 g)- Semolina
Eggs: 4- medium
Lemon juice: ⅓cup(75 g)
Baking powder: 4tsp(16 g)
Lemon peel: 2
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low

instructions:
"Don’t dare mess with snack time!": it's not a threat, but an invitation to take a break from work to sit down and enjoy a soft cloud of citrus-scented lemon cake ! Lemon cake is a soft dessert that is simple both in its taste and preparation, making it ideal not only for snacks but also for breakfast for the young and old. Make sure to choose untreated and preferably organic lemons to enhance the taste and aroma of the main ingredient even more. There is no need to add anything else: let yourself be intoxicated by the scent of lemon cake, while your senses wake up at the first bite... after having tasted your slice, you'll be ready to dive back into the daily grind! If you're looking for a little "extra" while eating, don't be shy: fill it with creams or jams with citrus notes, such as lemon cream!
To prepare the lemon cake , first cut the softened butter into cubes, then transfer it to a stand mixer with a beater (if you don't have a stand mixer, you can use an electric hand mixer); use the mixer and add half of the sugar a little at a time, until you get a smooth, frothy mixture . Separate the egg whites from the yolks; while the mixer is running, add one yolk at a time to the butter and sugar mixture , waiting for it to be absorbed before adding the next. When the yolks are well blended, add the rind of the two grated lemons and mix again with the beater.
In a bowl, sift together the flour, cornstarch, and yeast, then add them to the mixture one spoonful at a time while the mixer is running . When the dry ingredients are well mixed, turn off the mixer and transfer the mixture into a bowl . Clean the mixer well, and use it again to whip the egg whites (alternatively, you can also use a bowl and perfectly clean electric whisk): pour the egg whites and start whisking,
then add the remaining sugar and drizzle the lemon juice and continue whipping until a dense, frothy consistency is obtained .
At this point you can add the whipped egg whites to the mixture previously set aside: start adding 2 ladlefuls and stir vigorously to soften the mixture, then add the rest of the whipped egg whites and stir from bottom to top with a spatula to keep the air inside, and prevent it from coming apart . When all the ingredients are well blended, pour the mixture into a cake tin with a diameter of 8-9 inches (22-24 cm), lined with baking paper ,
level the surface and bake in a static oven preheated to 355° F (180°) for one hour; if the cake darkens too much during baking, after about 40 minutes you can open the oven and cover with aluminum foil, then continue baking. When the cake is ready (always check with a toothpick), take it out of the oven and let it cool in the baking tin , then transfer it to a serving plate and let it cool completely, then sprinkle with powdered sugar. Your lemon cake is ready to be enjoyed !
Store the lemon cake for a maximum of 5 days under a bell-shaped glass cloche. If you have used fresh ingredients, you can freeze the lemon cake after it has completely cooled, perhaps sliced. Store in a freezer up to 3 months and defrost at room temperature.
If you wish to accentuate the citrusy taste of this fragrant lemon cake, you can replace the lemon juice with a glass of limoncello!

