name:
Carciofi alla romana (Roman-style artichokes)
ingredients:
Purple artichokes: 4
Mint: 1small bunch- or mentuccia
Garlic: 1clove
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(100 ml)
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Lemons: 1

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the Roman-style artichokes , start by cutting the lemon in half . Then fill a rather large bowl with water and squeeze in the half lemon and rub the remaining part on your hands, so they will not blacken while cleaning the artichokes. Take your artichokes and start removing the outer leaves by tearing them off by hand .
Then cut off the end of the stem and the tip of your artichoke . With your hands spread the artichoke and using a small knife, or a corer, also cut out the central part so as to eliminate the inner beard .
Also peel the stem and round off the end using a sharp knife . Place the artichoke inside the acidulated water and continue in the same way for the others. Cover with absorbent paper to keep the artichokes soaked in water , keep aside and in the meantime prepare the filling.
Take the mint, roll the leaves and cut them with a knife without chopping them too much. Then take the garlic, peel it, cut it first into slices and then mince it. Add it to the mint ,
add a pinch of salt , black pepper and mix everything together. Drain the artichokes and shake them slightly to remove the excess water, then use the freshly prepared mix to stuff them . Rub them with salt and pepper on the cutting board .
At this point transfer them upside down into a pan , keeping them fairly close together. Then pour in both the oil and the water so that the artichokes are covered up to the top of the stem.
Cover with a lid and cook for about 30 minutes over low heat. They will be tender and you can serve your Carciofi alla romana ( Roman-style artichokes ) warm .
The Roman-style artichokes can be kept in the refrigerator for 2-3 days at most soaked in their cooking liquid. If you have used all fresh ingredients you can freeze them, sealed in an airtight container.
If you can't find mentuccia , which has a more delicate taste, you can opt for mint or parsley. These artichokes are also excellent for dressing pasta, just chop them after cooking!

