name:
Torta caprese (Chocolate cake)
ingredients:
Dark chocolate 50%: 6oz(170 g)- for grating
Peeled almonds: ¾cup(85 g)- (to be finely ground)
Whole peeled hazelnuts: ¾cup(85 g)- from Giffoni (to be finely ground)
Powdered sugar: 1 ½cup(170 g)
Butter: 6oz(170 g)- softened
Potato starch: 3tbsp(25 g)
Unsweetened cocoa powder: 2 ½tbsp(14 g)
Egg whites: ½cup(148 g)- at room temperature
Egg yolks: ⅓cup(85 g)- at room temperature
Baking powder: 1tsp(4 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- Bourbon
Fine salt: 1pinch
Powdered sugar: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 10
Cost: High

instructions:
To prepare torta caprese (chocolate cake) , start by placing the butter at room temperature into a bowl (take it out of the fridge at least a couple of hours before using it), half of the sugar and the seeds scraped off half a vanilla bean . Using a handheld mixer on medium-high speed, whisk the butter and after 6-7 minutes add the pinch of salt and egg yolks. The eggs should also be left at room temperature for at least 12 hours .
After a few minutes the mixture will be frothy , so turn off the mixer, clean the bowl with a spatula collecting all the mixture and set it aside . In another bowl mix the dry ingredients: add the grated chocolate , the powdered almonds ,
and the powdered hazelnuts . Next, sift the potato starch, baking powder and bitter cocoa powder .
Mix everything well and set aside . In another bowl pour the egg whites and the remaining powdered sugar . Make sure that the whisks are clean, otherwise the egg whites will not whip .
After a few minutes the egg whites will be shiny and frothy: you don't have to whip them stiff, but they need to hold the classic bird beak . When all preparations are complete, preheat the oven to 340°F (170°C) in convection mode and start combining them: fold a third of the whipped egg whites then a third of the dry ingredients into the egg yolks and butter mixture
using a spatula, stirring gently from bottom to top . Add another third of the egg whites and one third of the dry ingredients and continue until you get a uniform mixture .
Pour the smooth and creamy mixture into a 9-inch (22 cm) round cake mold already buttered and floured with potato starch . Carefully level the surface and bake in a convection oven at 340°F (170°C) for about 45 minutes .
Once baked, let the cake cool down in the mold, then turn it upside down to unmold it . Then turn it over again on a plate lined with baking paper and let it cool completely . Once cold, turn the cake upside down one last time, remove the baking paper and dust the surface with powdered sugar. Your torta caprese (chocolate cake) is ready to be enjoyed !
Torta caprese (chocolate cake) can be stored at room temperature, in a cool place, under a glass dome for 3-4 days.
The cake freezes well, better without the powdered sugar; to make it easier you can cut it into portions before freezing.
Prepare the ground hazelnuts and toasted almonds in advance: just blend them at maximum speed, the time it takes to turn them into flour. Pour the ground nuts on a sheet of baking paper and let them air dry overnight.
An alternative version of the torta caprese (chocolate cake) includes melted chocolate, but in this case the texture will be more compact. If you prefer you can try both versions, then choose the one you prefer!

