name:
Homemade pasta (sheets and shapes)
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 3 ¼cups(400 g)
Eggs: 4- (at least 70 g each) preferably organic
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Very low
Note + resting time in the fridge (30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare fresh egg pasta, pour the flour onto the work surface and make a well in the center with the bottom of a bowl .
In the same bowl, beat the whole eggs with a fork and pour them into the center of the flour , then add a pinch of salt .
Start mixing with the fork to incorporate all the flour , then continue using a dough scraper to gather the flour on the work surface .
Once the eggs are well blended , continue kneading by hand , bringing the dough towards the center and stretching it with your palm without tearing it. If it shows cracks, moisten your hands with water and knead until it becomes compact and homogeneous. At this point, form a dough ball .
Wrap it with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. After the resting time, retrieve the dough ball from the fridge, cut off a piece with the dough scraper , and cover the rest with a bowl or plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out .
Slightly flatten the dough ball with your hands , then roll it out with a rolling pin and fold the ends towards the center so you can pass it through the rollers of the pasta machine.
Pass the dough through the widest roller 3 or 4 times, folding the dough each time to strengthen it. Then gradually reduce the roller thickness until reaching the thinnest setting. Your fresh egg pasta sheets are ready, and you can cut them to your desired shape !
The raw dough can be stored in the refrigerator, wrapped in plastic wrap, for 1 or at most 2 days.
You can freeze the fresh pasta uncooked, in the chosen shapes: place the pasta shapes on a tray with some distance between them and then freeze to harden for a couple of hours. Once they are well-hardened, transfer them to freezer bags and put them back in the freezer. When you're ready to use them, cook them directly from frozen in boiling water and proceed with your recipe.
If you prefer the traditional method, you can roll out the fresh pasta with a long rolling pin: it will require more patience and... elbow grease!
1_ Use the work surface: the roughness of wood is more suitable than a simple smooth surface
2_ Beat the eggs with a fork when adding them to the flour well to prevent overflow.
3_ Salt or not? According to Emilia-Romagna traditions, it shouldn't be added to the dough; others say a pinch of salt won't hurt.
4_ Avoid drafts: they can dry out the pasta
5_ Flour-to-egg ratio: the classic ratio is 100 g of flour per each egg. But it mainly depends on what you are preparing.
6_ The kneading: the dough should be kneaded for at least 10 minutes, vigorously and with the palm of your hand, slapping it occasionally on the work surface to make it more elastic
7_ Keep the dough you're not working on covered to prevent it from drying out.
8_ Flour the work surface: this way, the pasta shapes won't stick to the surface.
9_ If you're making lasagna, tagliatelle, tagliolini, pappardelle, or small squares, it's best to let the rolled sheets dry slightly with semolina sprinkled on them for a few minutes on each side before folding them into a flat roll.
10_ Eggs or yolks? If making filled fresh pasta like ravioli or tortellini, you can skew the proportions towards the liquid part. So, for about 140 g of flour, add one egg + one yolk. For other dry shapes, it's better to use only whole eggs.

