name:
Batter
ingredients:
Eggs: 2- cold
Type 00 flour: 1 ⅓cup(150 g)
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)- cold
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Are you looking for the recipe for batter to write in your notebook so you can show it off any time? Before you do, you have to try some recipes, because there are so many ways to prepare batter! Today we offer you a version with whipped egg whites, which will allow you to obtain a thick mixture that adheres perfectly to vegetables, such as cauliflower, zucchini, eggplant or onions for a golden result. But if you're looking for a gluten-free version don't worry, just replace the flour 00 with rice flour to get an equally tasty result! If, on the other hand, you want a really crispy fried food, go eggless and use just water and flour. Finally, if you prefer a full version, you must absolutely try the beer-based batter we used to fry the gurnard, for example! Choose the right batter for you and to obtain a dry and light fried food pay attention to the type of oil and heat to the right temperature! What are you waiting for? Artichokes, carrots, mushrooms, shrimps, chicken or zucchini are ready to be dipped in this batter and fried! Enjoy them still steaming!
To prepare the batter , first separate the yolks from the egg whites . Then beat them stiff using an electric mixer (2-3).
Set the egg whites aside for a moment and take the yolks. Add a pinch of salt and milk , mixing with a whisk, or with the mixer at the lowest speed .
Next, sift the flour directly into the bowl a nd mix again with a whisk to obtain a homogeneous mixture .
Now add the egg whites beaten stiff and fold them in with a spatula, mixing gently from bottom to top . As soon as the batter is homogeneous and frothy , you can use it!
We recommend you use fried batter immediately; avoid preparing it in advance. We also recommend frying vegetables, fish or meat and enjoy them right away; over time the batter tends to become soft.
The best oil for frying is certainly vegetable oil, and to obtain a dry and crispy fried food its temperature must be between 340° and 360°F (170°-180°C).
... just pour 3/4 cup (100 g) of flour 00 into a bowl and dilute it with 1/2 cup (120 g) of cold water, stirring quickly with a whisk!
... just follow the same recipe, replacing the flour 00 with the same amount of rice flour!

