name:
Zabaione (Egg cream)
ingredients:
Egg yolks: 0.2lb(90 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(25 g)
Vin santo wine: ⅓cup(75 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the egg cream , first place ice in a bowl and put it in the freezer so it is ready when needed. Then pour the Vin Santo wine into a saucepan , add half the sugar and heat it just until it melts . Do not heat the wine too much, otherwise the alcohol will evaporate; we recommend not to exceed 95° F (35° C).
Place the egg yolks in a bowl, and whisk in the remaining sugar ; continue whisking until you obtain a homogeneous mixture then add a ladle of hot liqueur to dilute the mixture.
Quickly add the remaining part of wine while whisking and cook everything in a bain-marie , while continuing to whisk . You will gradually notice a thickening of the cream, and the foam will tend to disappear.
Beat continuously until the volume has increased and the temperature has reached 180° F (83° C) . If you don't have a kitchen thermometer, you will know that the egg cream is ready when the whisk leaves furrows and lines form. By lifting the whisk the egg cream will remain inside . Take the bowl with ice from the freezer and place another one on top .
Pour the egg cream inside and stir with a spatula gently for a couple of minutes ; it will cool quickly, the air will remain inside but that annoying film will not form. The egg cream is ready to be served.
The egg cream can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days. Before using it, you will need to whisk for a bit.
It is also possible to freeze it in ice containers, covered with film.
To obtain an egg cream with an intense and strong color, we recommend using fresh organic egg yolks. Instead of caster sugar, you can use the same amount of brown sugar. Vin Santo wine can be substituted with Marsala , or with a fortified local wine of your choice. Otherwise, dry white wine is fine.
With this recipe, the alcohol content of the egg cream will be 28%, but if you prefer a less alcoholic cream you can mix the egg cream with custard in the same quantities; as such, the alcohol content will be halved.

