name:
Frittata (Egg-based dish)
ingredients:
Eggs: 8- medium
Pecorino cheese: 0.1lb(50 g)- to be grated
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 0.1lb(50 g)- to be grated
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tsp(5 g)- to grease the pan

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 5 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
The frittata is a classic dish, perhaps one of the first with which we experiment in the kitchen. You can indulge yourself with versions rich in fresh ingredients that are perfect for the spring season such as spring, radish, or asparagus frittata. In winter, you can try your hand at the red beet frittata. Before creating elaborate versions, we suggest that you start with the recipe for a classic frittata simply prepared with beaten eggs and Parmesan and Pecorino cheese, to be baked in the oven. There are those who cook it over a high flame and those who, like us, prefer slower cooking with the lid on. Grandmothers suggest thyme leaves to enhance the taste, and there are those who would never serve it without at least a dash of pepper. How do you make it? But above all, how do you prefer to eat it? On its own, in a sandwich, served as a delicious appetizer, cut into small pieces, or in rolls? While you think about it, come with us to the stove to prepare a soft and tasty frittata !
Try also other tasty recipes with eggs:
To prepare the frittata , crack the eggs and place them in a large bowl , then beat them lightly with a fork (or whisk) . Pour in the grated Parmesan and Pecorino cheese , then add salt and pepper to taste.
Place a 12-inch (30 cm) non-stick pan over the heat and heat the oil for a few moments . Add the beaten eggs and let them cook over low heat for 8 minutes, covering the pan with a flat lid ; move the pan occasionally to keep the frittata from sticking to the bottom.
Once the required time has elapsed, flip the frittata: place the serving plate on the pan and turn it upside down, keeping the plate and pan tightly together so that the frittata does not slip out: now you will find yourself with the cooked part of the frittata facing upwards, so slide the frittata inside the pan , so that the other side can cook for another 8 minutes, this time without the lid. Once ready, serve the frittata hot .
We recommend eating it immediately. You can store the frittata in the fridge for a maximum of 1 day. Freezing is not recommended.
If desired, you can also scent your frittata with thyme or chives, which will also add color to your plate!

