name:
Meatloaf
ingredients:
Ground beef: 1.3lbs(600 g)
Sausage: 0.88lb(400 g)
Bread: 7.1oz(200 g)- fresh
Pecorino cheese: 5.3oz(150 g)- (to grate)
Whole milk: 0.8cup(200 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Thyme: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
New potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Shallot: 2
Sage: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Average

instructions:
What's for lunch? Baked meatloaf! Who among us hasn't enjoyed a rich and genuine homemade meatloaf , prepared with love by mothers and grandmothers who, without fail on Sundays, bake this appetizing main course that brings everyone to the table in no time? Baked meatloaf is a home-cooked recipe with a thousand variations, including vegetarian ones, like Mushroom Meatloaf , or fish ones, like tuna meatloaf. Thanks to its ease of preparation, it is also perfect for holiday menus, for example as a Christmas main dish. Secret ingredients are kept in old recipe books or just in the historical memory of home cooks, who pass down their version from generation to generation… the one undisputed rule: the result of this skillful mix must deliver a soft and succulent dish to accompany flavorful sides. We suggest baking the roasted potatoes with shallots directly in the meatloaf pan, to optimize time! To those who already have the perfect recipe, to those still searching for it, and finally to those who have never tried this preparation, this is our version of baked meatloaf… let us know what you think!
Also try these tasty variations:

To prepare the baked meatloaf, first remove the crust from the bread and cut the crumb into cubes . Transfer the bread to a bowl and soak it with milk (or water) and let it soak.
In a large bowl, add the ground meat, then crumble the sausage with your hands, removing the casing . Add the grated cheese, eggs , and the crumb after squeezing it well .
Season with thyme leaves , grated nutmeg , salt, and pepper .
Mix the ingredients well with your hands , it will take at least 5 minutes for it to come together properly . At this point, place the mixture on a large enough sheet of parchment paper .
Use the parchment paper to shape the mixture into a cylinder about 12x4 inches (13-14). Transfer the meatloaf and its paper into a baking dish, then brush the surface with oil .
Set aside for a moment and focus on the side dish: wash and halve the new potatoes , then place them in a bowl with the peeled and quartered shallots . Season with oil .
Add the chopped sage and thyme , salt, and pepper , then mix well to evenly season the potatoes .
Place the potatoes in the baking dish around the meatloaf and bake in a preheated static oven at 355°F for about 80-90 minutes . After the baking time, remove from the oven and serve your baked meatloaf with a side of potatoes !
The baked meatloaf can be stored in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 5 days.
The potatoes can be stored in the fridge for a couple of days.
You can freeze the meatloaf if you've used fresh ingredients.
With leftover meatloaf, you can make the traditional Milanese mondeghili , tasty meatballs typically made with leftover meat.
To accompany the meatloaf, you can also prepare classic rosemary-scented roasted potatoes or Mediterranean Potatoes .
Instead of cow's milk, you can soak the crumb with plant-based milk or water; keep in mind that if the crumb is dry, it may require a bit more liquid.
If you prefer, you can replace the thyme with parsley.
Don't throw away the bread crust but blend it to make homemade breadcrumbs!
Looking for an alternative to beef meatloaf? Try our chicken meatloaf recipe!

