name:
Tasty chicken wings with potatoes
ingredients:
Chicken wings: 8
Potatoes: 1lb(500 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1 ⅔cup(200 g)
Type 00 flour: ⅓cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2oz(50 g)- for grating
Eggs: 2
Parsley: to taste- to be chopped
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Roast chicken with potatoes is a great classic in terms of home cooking, as a rustic dish that is always present on the weekly menu of Italian families. Fried chicken wings, on the other hand, come from overseas where they are appreciated by both young and old thanks to their crispy and very tasty breading. We have taken the best of these two timeless recipes to make a delicious and succulent dish : tasty chicken wings with potatoes! It has special breading with Parmesan cheese and parsley, which will make the chicken especially tasty. Baking it in the oven allows a delicious crust to form on the outside and soft and juicy meat on the inside, without the dish being too heavy or calorie-rich. If you are looking for a cheap and easy to prepare main course that includes a side dish, forget about the usual chicken for once and try our tasty chicken wings with potatoes!
To prepare tasty chicken wings with potatoes , first pour the flour into a bowl and flour the chicken wings on one side and the other , then remove the excess flour and place them on a tray .
In another bowl, pour the breadcrumbs, grated Parmesan cheese and chopped parsley (set some aside for the final garnish) and mix thoroughly . Finally, beat the eggs in another bowl.
Dip the floured chicken wings first into the beaten egg and then into the breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese , pressing with your hands so that it adheres well. It is important to flour the meat first to prevent the breadcrumbs from flaking off during cooking. Once you have breaded all of the chicken wings , you can work on the potatoes.
Peel the potatoes and divide them first in half , then into quarters; then cut them into cubes . Put the potatoes in a bowl and season them with oil and salt, then pour them into the bowl with the leftover breadcrumbs
and stir well . Take a large saucepan and place the breaded chicken wings inside, then pour in the potatoes and spread them evenly over the surface.
Season with a little salt and a generous dash of oil and bake in a preheated ventilated oven at 390° F (200° C) for 40 minutes . After, turn on the grill and continue cooking for another 10 minutes to make the breadcrumbs nice and crispy. Once cooked, garnish with the remaining parsley and serve your tasty chicken wings with potatoes steaming hot !
Tasty chicken wings with potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1-2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
If you prefer, you can replace the parsley in the breadcrumbs with chopped rosemary!

