name:
Taralli (Round breadsticks)
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(550 g)
Dry white wine: 1cup(200 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ½cup(120 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 50 min
Makes: 60 pieces
Cost: Very low

instructions:
Probably the greatest classic, along with grissini breadsticks , that are a must on buffet tables. Taralli : snacks to tame the appetite during the day, perfect companions of wine and drinks during an aperitif and, last but not least, they can replace bread in a fresh salad and be eaten at the end of a meal! Taralli are fantastic, and everyone likes them because they can be prepared in so many ways: round or drop-shaped, small or large, savory, spiced and even sweet. There's something for everyone and every taste! You just need to choose... as if that were easy! If you are wondering if there is an original recipe, we would venture to guess that there isn't. Ours is the most common recipe, which briefly sums up the goodness of this preparation and brings everyone together. Taralli are quite widespread throughout Italy, but the supremacy of its production lies in the south, namely in Puglia with tarallini and Campania with lard and pepper. Now that we've told you everything there is to know about taralli, there's nothing left to do but get ready and make them with us!
Looking for more savoury snacks? Check out this recipes:

To prepare taralli , start by kneading the ingredients in a bowl, or, if you prefer, in a stand mixer equipped with a hook. Pour in the flour, salt and oil and stir briefly until you get a crumbly mixture .
Now add the wine , mix everything together and transfer the mixture to a pastry board by hand for about ten minutes .
Take off some small pieces of dough and shape them with your fingertips to form a strip 1/3 inch (1 cm) thick and about 4 3/4 inches (12 cm) long . Then join the tips by folding one end over the other, so as to obtain a sort of doughnut. Keep in mind that these amounts and this procedure will make about 60 pieces . Meanwhile, boil a pot of water.
As you shape them, place the taralli on a tray with baking paper . When you have formed all the taralli, immerse a few pieces at a time in boiling water with the help of a skimmer . As soon as they rise to the surface, they will be ready to be drained on a tray lined with a clean cloth; continue cooking the others .
Transfer the pieces to a drip pan with baking paper and bake in a static oven preheated to 375° F (190° C) for about 40 minutes . Your taralli are ready, enjoy !
Taralli can be stored for a few days if kept tightly sealed in a bag.
Freezing is not recommended.
Once the dough is ready, it should be used immediately.
Flavor your taralli with the spices you prefer: black pepper, fennel seeds or chilli pepper. Also oregano and rosemary, if you prefer herbs. Try your hand at making more interesting ones, using black olive spread, dehydrated onions, or tomato paste and oregano. Given the humidity that the spread and paste give the dough, pay attention to the amount of wine added.
If you are wondering if it is really necessary to blanch the taralli , the answer is no. Then why are we doing it? Simply because through the gelification of starches when precooking in water, taralli become much more doughy after baking. On the contrary, taralli that have not been blanched will be more toasted and less brittle. Give it a try, so you can choose the version you prefer!

