name:
Mozzarella in carrozza (Fried mozzarella)
ingredients:
White bread loaf: 12slices- 1 1/3 lb (600 g)
Mozzarella di bufala cheese: 1.1lbs(500 g)- preferably the day before
Fine salt: to taste
Eggs: 5- large
Type 00 flour: 1cup(100 g)
Breadcrumbs: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Sunflower seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 8 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 1 hour rest

instructions:
To prepare the fried mozzarella , start by cutting the buffalo mozzarella into 1/2" (1 cm) thick slices. Place them gradually on a tray lined with blotting paper and cover with more blotting paper .
Press gently with your hands to blot the mozzarella and remove excess water. If necessary, use paper towels until it is completely dry . At this point, go ahead and stuff the bread. Put the slices of bread on a cutting board ,
Place the slices of mozzarella on top, so as to cover the entire surface, but without letting it stick out , salt and cover each slice with another slice of bread .
Then press gently with your hands to pack it all together . Continue like this for all the other slices of bread, until you finish the mozzarella. Then trim the slices of stuffed bread using a knife, to remove the outer crust . At this point you can cut the mozzarella in the bread in two different ways. By cutting a cross you will get 4 squares from each slice.
For a triangular cut you have to cut the bread first in half on the diagonal and then in half on the other diagonal. This way you will get 4 triangles. Continue this way until all the pieces are finished . Now switch to the breading. Break the eggs into an oven dish and beat them with a whisk for a few minutes .
Then in two other baking dishes place the breadcrumbs in one and the sifted flour in the other. At this point dip each piece of stuffed  bread first into the flour and then using 2 forks into the egg , to coat them completely. Then set them on a plate for a few seconds , to remove the excess egg part.
and avoid lumps when you dip it in the breadcrumbs .Transfer to a cutting board and with the blade of a knife lightly press the edges and the surface in order to even out the breadcrumbs and make a more precise shape . If necessary, dip it in the breadcrumbs again and press again with the knife blade. Continue in this way for all the other pieces and transfer them gradually to a tray lined with baking paper . Then place in the fridge for about 30 minutes.
After the breaded mozzarella has set , you can start with the second breading, first dip into the egg , then set in the saucer to remove the excess and finally dip in the breadcrumbs .
As previously, then transfer the pieces of breaded mozzarella onto a cutting board and with the blade of a knife even out the breadcrumbs . Continue this way for all the others by placing them on a tray lined with baking paper . Store in the fridge to set for another 30 minutes. Pour the oil into a frying pan and bring it to a temperature of 340-350° F (170-180° C) maximum. Put in a few pieces at a time and cook the fried mozzarellas for 1-2 minutes , turning them from time to time with a skimmer.
When they are well browned, drain them from the oil and put them on a tray lined with absorbent paper to remove the excess oil . Fry the others and serve .
The fried mozzarella must be enjoyed immediately! You can keep it in the fridge for a few hours before you fry it.
To prepare fried mozzarella we recommend using mozzarella opened the day before, so it will be drier. This way it will not spill out during cooking.
The flour in the breadcrumbs serves to glue the egg and breadcrumbs together.
It is important to drain the slices of bread well from the egg, because this is the only way you will avoid lumps when you dip them in the breadcrumbs. For the same reason it is important to always keep your hands clean when breading.
In order to ensure that the breadcrumbs remain well attached to the bread and that no moisture develops inside the fried mozzarella, it is important to place in the refrigerator after each breading.
For a chef's touch in the second breading only, instead of breadcrumbs, you can use panko, the Japanese "crumbly" breadcrumbs, which will make it crunchier.
Be very careful when frying. Always start with an oil with a temperature of 340-350° F (170-180 C) so that the pieces immersed in it will stabilize around 325° F (160°) and the cooking will be uniform. If the oil is too hot, the fried mozzarella will be too dark on the outside, and inside the mozzarella will not be stringy. To recover it, you can put it in the oven for a few minutes at 325° F (160°).
Instead of loaf bread you can use slices of homemade bread, in this case you won't need to remove the crust and the result will be much more rustic!

