name:
Caponata (Eggplant salad)
ingredients:
Eggplant: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Celery: 0.9lb(400 g)
White onions: 0.5lb(250 g)
Cluster tomatoes: 0.4lb(200 g)
Green olives in brine: 0.4lb(200 g)- pitted
Salted capers: 1.75oz(50 g)- rinsed
Pine nuts: 1.75oz(50 g)
Sugar: ⅓cup(60 g)
White wine vinegar: ¼cup(60 g)
Basil: to taste
Tomato paste: 2 ½tbsp(40 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + rest time in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make caponata (eggplant salad) , first clean the onion and slice it thin . Trim the celery and cut it into thin slices . Cut the green olives in half and remove the pits .
Wash and dry the eggplants, trim and cut them into approx. 1-inch (2.5 cm) thick pieces . Do the same with the tomatoes . Heat a frying pan and toast the pine nuts for a few minutes
until they are golden in color . Now take your eggplants: put the olive oil in a high-sided pan and heat it, pour a few eggplant pieces in at a time and fry them for a few minutes . Once they are golden, drain them with the skimmer and place them on a tray lined with absorbent paper to remove excess oil , then set aside.
In a large pan pour a generous round of olive oil, heat it and then pour in the onion . Fry well until the onion has a light golden color, then add the celery ; let it brown well, then add the capers ,
olives , roasted pine nuts and tomatoes .
Brown for a few moments, then cover with the lid and cook over low heat for 15-20 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the sweet-and-sour sauce: pour the vinegar, tomato paste and sugar into a small pot.
Mix well with a teaspoon and, after 15-20 minutes of cooking, add salt and pour the sauce into the pan . Turn up the heat and stir until the smell of vinegar has evaporated. Turn off the flame, add the fried eggplant
and sprinkle with plenty of basil . Mix everything well , transfer the caponata (eggplant salad) in an ovenproof dish and put it in the fridge. This dish should be served cold or at room temperature and will taste even better the next day.
The caponata can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2-3 days, in a glass container covered with plastic wrap. Before serving, however, bring it to room temperature and keep it out of the fridge for a couple of hours!

In Palermo, caponata may be served with floured and fried baby octopus; another common variation is to add thin slices of sweet pepper, which you will fry together with the eggplant. Try them yourself!

There is much dispute about the name "caponata" : some claim it comes from the word Capone, the Sicilian dialect for mahi-mahi, a fish with lean and fine meat served on aristocratic tables and seasoned with a sweet and sour sauce. The people who did not have or could not afford this type of fish, found eggplant to be an excellent substitute, thus creating the recipe for caponata. Others trace the term Caponata back to the Latin word Caupona - Cauponium , which means tavern. The tavern was in fact the meeting place where sailors would go to after work to refresh themselves with a glass of wine and simple but tasty food, reminiscent of this dish. This ancient dish is widespread throughout the Mediterranean and is known in many variations; at least 37 versions can be found in Sicily alone!

