name:
Saltimbocca alla Romana (Roman-style veal cutlets)
ingredients:
Sliced veal: 12oz(300 g)- (4 slices of veal)
Prosciutto crudo: 1.5oz(40 g)- (4 thin slices)
Sage: 4leaves
Butter: ¼cup(50 g)
White wine: ½cup(100 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: ½cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Water: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the saltimbocca alla romana , start by slicing the veal nut , then place each slice on a cutting board, remove any nerves and fat and then beat it with a meat tenderizer to make it thin. Place a thin slice of prosciutto in the middle ;
and a sage leaf . Use a toothpick to keep the ingredients together . Pour 1/4 cup (40 g) of butter and 1 1/2 tbsp (20 g) into a pan and melt over medium-high heat.
Flour the slices of meat on one side only and gradually place them in the pan with the sauce , increase the temperature so that the saltimbocca are golden brown . Pepper to taste, but do not salt because the prosciutto will make the dish tasty.
When the meat is golden underneath, blend with the white wine and let it evaporate. As soon as the alcohol has evaporated completely, cover with the lid and cook for another minute. Transfer the saltimbocca to a plate and keep them warm.
Now take care of the accompanying sauce: add 1 1/2 tablespoon (20g) of butter and water in the same pan with the cooking liquid of the meat. Reduce until you have created a slightly dense cream.
Now spread the cream on the bottom of a serving plate and place the slices of meat on top . The saltimbocca alla romana are ready to serve .
It is a very quick second course to prepare, hence it is recommended to eat the saltimbocca right away, avoiding long waiting times that could darken the meat and make it tough.
Freezing is not recommended.
Saltimbocca alla romana are quick to prepare and irresistible, when very small they are also phenomenal as finger food, since you can serve them with a toothpick and eat them one after another. If they are served according to tradition as a second course, then we suggest you accompany them with a plate of seasonal vegetables!
Pellegrino Artusi, at the end of the 19th century, said that he had tasted saltimbocca in the historic trattoria in Rome "Le Venete" even though, after a short time, it began to be served in other traditional Roman trattorias. Although the most accredited creator is the region of Lazio, saltimbocca seems to be known in other regions of Italy, and others further north claim that this second course originates in the town of Brescia.

