name:
Sicilian Cannoli
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Sugar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Lard: 2tbsp(30 g)
Marsala wine: 1.7oz(50 g)
Eggs: 1- medium
White wine vinegar: 2tsp(10 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Orange peel: 1
Cinnamon powder: ½tsp(2 g)
Sheep's milk ricotta cheese: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Dark chocolate chips: to taste
Egg yolks: to taste
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Powdered sugar: to taste
Ground pistachio: to taste
Candied orange: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Average
Note + the time to drain the ricotta and 2 hours of dough resting time

instructions:
Sicilian cannoli are an iconic specialty of Italian cuisine. These traditional sweets are appreciated for their combination of crunchiness and creaminess, making them irresistible. The cannolo is made with a fried pastry shell filled with a velvety sheep ricotta cream, flavored with cinnamon and orange zest. A mix of aromas and scents that recall the flavors of Sicilian cuisine. Cannoli are very versatile treats, to be enjoyed as a dessert but also as street food to be filled on the spot. Like all regional recipes, even Sicilian cannoli have secrets and versions that vary from city to city or from family to family: some choose to add cocoa or flavor the dough with Marsala, just like in the recipe you find here, created for us by Edoardo Dolcimascolo, Chef and owner of the restaurant 13 giugno , which offers the best Sicilian dishes. Discover how to prepare Sicilian cannoli at home and also try other typical sweets such as cassata , cassatine , Iris and almond pastries .
Also have fun experimenting with other original variations of this recipe such as Phyllo Dough Cannoli with Pistachio or cannoli crust tartlets.
To prepare Sicilian cannoli, remember to drain the fresh ricotta in a colander overnight to lose its whey. Start the preparation by making the dough: dissolve the salt in the vinegar in a small bowl . Sift the flour and add the cinnamon .
Add the lard , start kneading with your hands and then add the sugar .
Flavor with the orange zest , then add the egg and the Marsala .
Finally, pour in the vinegar in which you dissolved the salt . Continue kneading by hand until all the ingredients are gathered, then transfer to a lightly floured work surface and form a dough ball .
Cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator for 2 hours . Take the ricotta that you drained overnight as indicated earlier . Add the sugar .
Mix with the spatula , then pass the cream through a colander to obtain a smooth and velvety mixture. Incorporate the chocolate chips .
Cover with plastic wrap and leave in the refrigerator until ready to fill . Take 1/3 of the dough and leave the rest covered with plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out. Pass the dough through a pasta machine starting with the widest setting .
Fold the dough so that the edges meet , then pass it through the rollers again, reducing the thickness each time until you reach a thickness of 1/16 inch .
Using a pastry cutter with a diameter of 4 inches , cut out circles of dough . Wrap the circles around the cannoli mold .
Brush a small amount of egg yolk on one edge at the closure point (being careful not to go on the mold) , close and apply slight pressure to seal well . Place the cannoli on a tray and cover them with a cloth as you go along .
Fry the cannoli in vegetable oil at 350°F, submerging them with one end facing down before leaving them in the hot oil , until golden brown . During cooking, turn them occasionally; the typical bubbles will form. Drain them on paper towels .
Once the shells have cooled, you can remove the molds: apply slight pressure on the mold and extract it . Fill the cannoli with the ricotta cream using a pastry bag . Garnish with chopped pistachios .
Enrich with candied zest and then dust with powdered sugar . Enjoy the homemade Sicilian cannoli immediately .
We recommend filling the cannoli at the moment. The cream can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. The cannoli shells can be stored at room temperature for 2-3 days, covered with a cloth.
As an alternative to chocolate chips, you can use chopped candied fruit. If you're looking for an even more indulgent version, you can brush the inside of the cannoli with melted chocolate. Just let it solidify before filling them.

