name:
Zucchini parmigiana
ingredients:
Zucchini: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(60 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 0.5lb(250 g)
Type 00 flour: to taste- for breading
Peanut seed oil: to taste- for frying
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste
Tomato purée: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Onions: 
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 1 h 15 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare zucchini parmigiana , first start making the sauce. Pour a drizzle of oil into a pan, add the finely chopped onion and let it brown over low heat. Then add the tomato puree and a little water; add salt and let it cook for about 40 minutes over low heat, stirring frequently. Once cooked, add some hand-chopped basil leaves to the sauce .
In the meantime, wash the zucchini, trim and cut them into slices about 1/4 inch (5 mm) thick using a knife . Then put the oil over heat in a large pan and, while waiting for it to reach a temperature of 340° F (170° C), pass the zucchini in the flour
so they are breaded on both sides . As soon as the oil is at the right temperature (measured with a kitchen thermometer), dip a few slices at a time and fry the zucchini slices for a few minutes until they are golden brown. Then drain them
and place them on a tray lined with absorbent paper to drain the excess oil. Continue like this with the others, and salt them slightly if desired. Then cut the mozzarella into cubes and set aside. As soon as the sauce is cooked, take a rectangular 11x7 inch (28x18 cm) baking pan and spread some tomato sauce on the bottom, spreading it with the back of a spoon .
Arrange the zucchini neatly side by side, slightly overlapping , covered with a generous layer of tomato sauce, then season with grated parmesan cheese , cubes of mozzarella and pepper .
Repeat the same procedure this time by arranging the zucchini horizontally , then add a layer of sauce, mozzarella, parmesan cheese and a dash of pepper . Arrange the last layer of zucchini again lengthwise
and top with the remaining sauce and mozzarella. Sprinkle with parmesan cheese, a pinch of pepper and bake in a static oven preheated to 390° F (200° C) for 25-30 minutes. Then bake the parmesan , add a few basil leaves and let it rest for a few minutes before serving!
Zucchini parmigiana can be eaten warm or cold: keep in the fridge for 4-5 days. Alternatively you can freeze it after cooking it in the oven and let it cool, perhaps divided into portions, and thaw it in the fridge if necessary before heating.
For a lighter version, use grilled zucchini .

