name:
Gnocco fritto (Fried dough)
ingredients:
Lard: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Type 0 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 2 ½tsp(15 g)
Water: ½cup(125 g)- about
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Baking powder: 1tbsp(12 g)
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 2 min
Makes: 50 pieces
Cost: Low
Note plus resting time for the dough (up to 12 hours)

instructions:
To prepare gnocco fritto (fried dough) first mix the water with the milk . Pour the flour, baking powder for salted preparations , sugar and salt into a bowl.
Mix the dry ingredients, then incorporate the lard . Knead with your hands and pour the milk and water mixture in a stream . Once the dry ingredients have absorbed the liquids, transfer the dough to a floured pastry board .
Form a compact and dry small loaf of dough, place it inside a bowl, cover with plastic wrap , let the dough rest in a cool place for at least one hour and up to 12 hours. After this time, take the dough again , sprinkle the pastry board lightly and divide it into small loaves with a knife .
Take a small loaf (cover the rest with the bowl) and flatten it with a rolling pin until you get a very thin sheet, 1/16-inch thick . Cut the edges of the pastry sheet with a wavy pastry cutter . Then cut 4x3-inch (8x7 cm) rectangles . You should get about 50 pieces. Don't throw the cuttings away, just knead them back together.
Once cut out, cook the rectangles of dough in hot oil at 340°F (170°C) for about 1 minute, not more than 3-4 pieces at a time . Once golden on one side, turn it over and cook the other side . Drain on absorbent paper and continue with the remaining pieces of dough. Your gnocco fritto (fried dough) is ready, enjoy it hot!
Once ready, the dough can be stored for up to 12 hours, after which you can either fry it or freeze it. You can freeze the uncooked dough, then thaw it in the fridge and leave it at room temperature for a couple of hours before rolling it out and cooking it.

In the traditional recipe, gnocco fritto was fried in lard and not in oil, so use lard if you want to observe tradition! The amount of lard used in this recipe is really very low, so we have chosen to compensate for the lack of fat by using whole milk, if you do not want to use it we suggest you slightly increase the amount of lard.

