name:
Spaghetti frittata
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.8lb(350 g)
Eggs: 5
Whole milk: ½cup(100 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ½cup(50 g)- for grating
Smoked scamorza cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Smoked pancetta: 1 ¾cup(50 g)
Thyme: 1sprig
Black pepper: 1pinch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Garlic: 1clove

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low

instructions:
To make spaghetti frittata , first place a pan full of salted, it will be used to cook the pasta. Meanwhile, make the filling: dice the smoked bacon and scamorza cheese . As soon as the water boils, pour in the spaghetti and cook them until very firm to the bite .
Pour the eggs into a large bowl, add the thyme leaves and milk , then salt and pepper .
Season with grated cheese and mix well to obtain a homogeneous mixture . Incorporate the filling and stir again.
As soon as the pasta is cooked, drain it in a bowl and season it with a drizzle of olive oil . Add the pasta to the filling and stir again to blend. Take a flared round pan (we used one measuring 12 inches (30 cm) at the top and 10 inches (26 cm) at the bottom). Brown a clove of garlic in oil .
Remove the garlic clove and pour in the spaghetti . Distribute them evenly with a spatula , then cook over a high heat for 1 minute so that the base hardens, then lower the heat, cover with the lid and cook for 15 minutes .
It's time to turn the frittata: shake the pan to make sure it is detached from the bottom, place a plate of the diameter of your pan on top of the frittata, turn the pan upside down and cook uncovered for another 5 minutes. The frittata is ready , enjoy it sliced warm or cold!
Keep your spaghetti frittata in the fridge for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.

In the spaghetti frittata , as in any frittata, the ingredients can be imaginatively replaced according to taste: you could opt for prosciutto or baked ham instead of bacon, or replace smoked provola cheese with mozzarella, Emmentaler or Gruyere cheese. You can also prepare the frittata with leftover spaghetti already seasoned and adjust the seasoning to taste.

