name:
Milk bread
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¾cups(350 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1 ½tsp(7 g)
Whole milk: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- at room temperature
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Sugar: 5tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: 1 ¼tsp(7 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 1.3tbsp(20 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 35 min
Cook time: 30 min
Makes: 30 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (2 hours and 30 minutes)

instructions:
To prepare the milk rolls, first put the Manitoba flour in a stand mixer, add the all-purpose flour , the crumbled yeast , and the sugar .
Start the machine and gradually pour in the milk . When the dough is bound, pour in the melted butter, a bit at a time . Once the butter is absorbed into the dough, add the salt and work for another 5 minutes.
Once the salt is absorbed, move the dough onto the work surface, work it just enough to shape it into a ball , then place it in a bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Let rise in a dry place away from drafts for about 2 hours or until doubled in volume .
Cut the dough into 30 pieces of 1 oz each. For each piece, take the edges and bring them to the center of the dough, then roll and pinch slightly to seal the base. As you make them, place the rolls slightly apart on baking sheets lined with parchment paper , and let rise for 30 minutes.
In a small bowl, mix an egg yolk and cream, and brush this mixture on the surface of the rolls . Bake in a static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes , once out of the oven let them cool. Your milk rolls are ready to be filled with sweet or savory fillings .
You can store milk rolls at room temperature, in a closed bag, for a maximum of 3-4 days. They can be frozen once cooked and fully cooled at room temperature. Before reheating them in the oven, let them thaw in the refrigerator.
The dough for these rolls should be very soft and elastic, but not sticky: it all depends on the flour you use for preparation, which may absorb more or less liquid. So evaluate the dough while working on it: if it's too hard, add a little milk, if sticky, add a bit of flour.

