name:
Fried pizza with mortadella and fior di latte cheese
ingredients:
Water: 1cup(250 g)
Type 00 flour: 3 ⅔cups(415 g)
Fine salt: ¾tbsp(15 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(3 g)
Ricotta di bufala cheese: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Water: ⅓cup(70 g)
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 0.5lb(220 g)
Mortadella: 4oz(120 g)- thick-sliced
Black pepper: to taste
Basil: to taste
Peanut seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: 4 pieces
Cost: Average
Note plus rising time (about 8 hours)

instructions:
Aromatic, hot and stringy: fried pizza is one of the most popular Neapolitan street foods in the world! To discover all the secrets we have hosted in the kitchen of GialloZafferano one of the most famous and loved pizzaioli (pizza chefs): Gino Sorbillo. An authentic Neapolitan and third generation pizza chef, Sorbillo has prepared for us fried pizza with mortadella and fior di latte mozzarella cheese. Starting from water, according to the Neapolitan tradition, with the right timing and carefully repeated motions, you will obtain a smooth and silky dough ready to receive your favorite fillings. The version we present here, along with the salami one is a classic. Don't be frightened by the size of the fried pizza with mortadella and fior di latte mozzarella cheese , it will be so good and light that you'll want to eat another one right away!
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare fried pizza with mortadella and fior di latte cheese , first of all let the water run from the tap and when cool take the amount required by the recipe and pour it into a large bowl. Add the brewer's yeast and dissolve it with your hands . Sift the flour into a bowl, add the salt
and stir with the back of a wooden ladle . Add almost half of the flour and stir with the spoon until you get a batter . Perform these operations slowly to allow the flour to absorb the water.
Add the remaining flour by sprinkling at intervals , this way the dough will be softer and you will be able to better adjust the amount of flour needed. As soon as you have incorporated with the wooden spoon all the flour you need, start kneading with your hands inside the bowl , bringing the dough back inwards and collecting the flour on the inner sides of the bowl as you go. When the bowl is clean, transfer the dough to the worktop: it will still have an uneven, but compact consistency. Add a tiny amount of flour and fold for 2-3 minutes, adding very little flour if necessary. The dough must not be too smooth. Now continue to knead the dough in folding and stretching motions: throw the dough down on your worktop by grabbing the dough in half so that a fold is created, then stretch it and carry it forward to fold on itself again . These movements are important to allow the gluten texture to form and incorporate air inside. Repeat this kneading technique up to about 10 times. Excessive kneading will result in a tougher dough.
Shape the dough into a loaf and leave it on the worktop, covered with plastic wrap . After 10-15 minutes, the dough will have become smooth, silky and more compact. This stage is also known as the first rise. Remove the plastic wrap, sprinkle a little flour, and cut in the middle to make a loaf .
You get 4 portions, about 5 oz (170 g) each . Rotate each portion on the worktop, without pinching too hard , but tuck in well the edges on the bottom .
You now have 4 perfectly round balls. Transfer them into a food box, spaced at least 1 inch (2 cm) apart. Cover with the lid and leave to rise for 6-8 hours in a cool place, checking the rising from time to time. Now prepare your fillings. Coarsely cut the mortadella . Cut the fior di latte, first into slices and then into small pieces .
Transfer the ricotta into a bowl, add water and stir until smooth and creamy . When the dough has risen, heat the oil to a temperature of 400°F (200°C). Using a well floured spatula, lift up a small ball of dough .
Place it on the worktop and with dry hands flatten it , you will have to get a smaller disc than the usual pizza. Place 1/4 of the ricotta in the middle leaving a 1 1/4-inch (3 cm) edge. Add a little fior di latte , a little mortadella ,
freshly grated black pepper and basil leaves . Close the pizza to form a half circle ,
pressing with your fingers to seal the edges , lift it gently, turn it upside down and make sure all its edges are sealed well. As you lift it up to transfer it to the frying skillet it will stretch. Place it in the hot oil .
Use two skimmers, with one hold the pizza and with the other move the oil on top. Wait a few moments , turn it upside down and continue cooking until it is golden brown . Drain it, place it on a tray lined with paper towels and continue making and frying the remaining pizzas. Enjoy the hot fried pizzas !
We recommend eating the fried pizza immediately.

If you prefer to let them rise for longer than a couple of hours, when you shape the balls press them tight.
If you do not have a food box with lid, place the dough balls on a tray and cover with plastic wrap.
It's important that they are sheltered from the air. With the same dough you can make montanare (miniature pizzas).
Choose a flour with W between 220 and 260.
If you don't like mortadella, try replacing it with Neapolitan salami.

