name:
Insalata russa (Italian-style coleslaw)
ingredients:
Potatoes: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Peas: 0.7lb(300 g)
Carrots: 0.45lb(200 g)
Pickles: 1.75oz(50 g)
Eggs: 2
Extra virgin olive oil: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Egg yolks: 2- at room temperature
Sunflower seed oil: 1cup(200 g)
Lemon juice: 1 ¾tbsp(25 g)
Vinegar: ⅔tsp(3 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + at least one hour's rest in the fridge

instructions:
To prepare insalata russa (Italian-style coleslaw) first put the eggs in a saucepan, cover with cold water and cook for 9 minutes from when the water starts boiling . Once cooked, put them in a bowl with water to cool. Meanwhile, peel carrots and potatoes and cut them into 1/5-inch (1/2 cm) cubes.
Take a large saucepan to steam the vegetables: first add the potatoes and cook for 10 minutes , then add the peas and cook for another 7-10 minutes . Finally add the carrots, cover with the lid and cook for another 5-7 minutes .
Now shell the eggs and dice them too . When the vegetables are cooked , transfer them to a bowl and let them cool down.
Add the hard boiled eggs to your warm vegetables , then season with salt, pepper, oil and apple cider vinegar . Stir gently and let it cool.
Meanwhile prepare the mayonnaise: put the yolks in a bowl, add salt , pepper and white wine vinegar , then start working with an electric mixer .
Pour the vegetable oil in a thin stream, taking care to do it very slowly to prevent mayonnaise from breaking . When the mixture is whipped, add lemon juice and whisk it again until the desired consistency is obtained .
Pour the mayonnaise into the vegetables and mix everything together . Let the insalata russa (Italian-style coleslaw) rest in the fridge for at least one hour before serving and enjoying it !
Store insalata russa in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. Freezing is not recommended.
You can customize your insalata russa (Italian-style coleslaw) with the most varied ingredients, keeping in mind some simple rules: reduce vegetables into cubes of the same size to ensure uniform cooking; do not choose ingredients that are too watery or that release color (such as beets); finally, use a homemade mayonnaise without overdoing the quantity.
If you want to make insalata russa even richer, try to crumble some tuna in the mayonnaise before pouring it!
As an alternative to steaming, you can boil the vegetables.
Vinegar in the dressing can be omitted.

