name:
Spaghetti Amatriciana (Spaghetti with guanciale and tomato)
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.7lb(320 g)
Peeled tomatoes: 0.9lb(400 g)
Guanciale: 5oz(150 g)
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: ¾cup(75 g)- for grating
Fine salt: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fresh chili pepper: 1
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare spaghetti Amatriciana (spaghetti with tomato and bacon), first boil the water to cook the pasta in, then add salt. Prepare the sauce: take the guanciale, remove the pork rind and cut it into slices about 1/4-inch (1 cm) thick then into strips about 1/8-inch (1/2 cm) wide .

Heat a drizzle of oil in a pan, preferably a stainless steel skillet, add the whole chili pepper and the guanciale cut into strips ; brown over low heat for 7-8 minutes until the fat has melted and the meat is crunchy; stir often to prevent it from burning. Once the fat has melted, pour in the white wine , turn up the heat and let it evaporate.

Transfer the guanciale to a plate and set aside, pour the peeled tomatoes into the same pan, breaking them up with your hands directly into the cooking liquid , continue cooking the sauce for about 10 minutes. As soon as the water boils, pour in the spaghetti and cook them al dente.

Add salt to taste, remove the chili pepper from the sauce , add the guanciale strips to the pan and stir to mix.

Once the spaghetti are cooked, drain them and add them directly to the sauce in the pan . Sauté the pasta very quickly to mix it well with the sauce. If you like the pasta al dente you can turn off the heat otherwise pour a little of the pasta cooking water to continue cooking. To finish, sprinkle with grated pecorino cheese : your spaghetti all'Amatriciana is ready to be served !

Spaghetti Amatriciana (spaghetti with tomato and bacon) can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to one day. Freezing it is not recommended.
If you are passionate about other real recipes for spaghetti Amatriciana , after tasting our version try the other variations using garlic or onion or sweating with water instead of wine... then choose your favorite! For this version we used spaghetti no. 3, but spaghetti no. 5 and spaghettoni will do just fine too. Try it!
After the terrible earthquake that destroyed the town of Amatrice, as well as nearby towns and villages, in August 2016, many people around the world showed their support, including restaurants, which contributed to the fundraising for the reconstruction by donating money for each dish of Amatriciana ordered, making this recipe a symbol not only of a country, but of an entire struggling population.

