name:
Paccheri pasta  with artichoke carbonara
ingredients:
Paccheri pasta: 0.7lb(320 g)
Artichokes: 1.5lbs(700 g)- (about 4)
Egg yolks: 5
Smoked pancetta: 5oz(150 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(30 g)
Pecorino cheese: ¼cup(30 g)
Shallot: 1
White wine: ¼cup(50 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Towards the end of the Second World War the legendary carbonara was created in Rome, from the encounter of American soldiers and local cooks. Over the years, many tasty variations of this historic recipe have been created, with potatoes, or vegetables, or seafood, but the common denominator is still the delicious egg and cheese cream that is often a challenge even for the most skilled chefs! And paccheri (pasta sleeves) carbonara with artichokes are no exception: the seasoning is prepared separately and added over a low heat to obtain the right creaminess. If you add to this the savory note of smoked bacon cubes and the unique taste of artichokes, the result can only be amazing! Follow our instructions step by step and bring to the table paccheri (pasta sleeves) carbonara with artichokes from the stove and... enjoy your creation!
You may also like our other tasty variations of traditional carbonara :
Discover more delicious Carbonara recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare paccheri (pasta sleeves) carbonara with artichokes , first clean the artichokes: remove the harder outer leaves and the central fuzz, cut them in half , then into quarters and finally into thin strips . As you cut them, put the artichokes in a bowl of water with lemon juice to prevent them from blackening.
Peel and finely chop the shallot, then heat a pot of water that will be used to cook the pasta. Pour the oil into a pan, add the chopped shallot and brown over moderate heat for 5 minutes. Add the diced bacon , turn up the heat and brown for 2-3 minutes, then simmer with white wine until reduced.
Now add the artichokes, drained from the water and lemon juice , and salt. Pour a ladle of hot water into the pan , lower the heat slightly and leave to cook for 10-12 minutes until the artichokes have softened, stirring occasionally. When the water for the pasta has come to a boil, add salt and cook the paccheri pasta for the time indicated on the package .
In the meantime, pour the yolks into a separate bowl, add the grated Parmesan and Pecorino cheese and freshly ground pepper to taste , then stir with a whisk to mix well and obtain a rather thick cream ; if necessary, you can add half a ladle of the cooking water from the pasta.
When the paccheri pasta is ready, pour it into the frying pan with the seasoning , stir over moderate heat and let it absorb the flavors briefly, then turn off the heat and pour the egg mixture into the pan . Mix well and serve your paccheri carbonara with artichokes !
We recommend eating the paccheri carbonara with artichokes immediately. Freezing is not recommended.
Instead of bacon you can use guanciale to make our version of paccheri carbonara with artichokes really similar to the original recipe.

