name:
Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe (Pecorino and black pepper spaghetti)
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.7lb(320 g)
Black pepper: to taste- corns
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)- medium seasoning, to be grated
Fine salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare spaghetti cacio e pepe , first of all grate the Pecorino cheese. Continue boiling some water in a pan (use about half of what you usually use to cook pasta, so it will be richer in starch) and when it boils you can add salt to taste. Once salted, you can cook the spaghetti . In the meantime, pour the whole peppercorns on a cutting board , then crush them with a meat pestle or a grinder . This will release more of the pungent scent of the pepper.

Pour half of the crushed pepper into a large non-stick pan , toast over low heat stirring with a wooden spoon, then add a couple of ladles of cooking water . The bubbles you see appearing are from the starch contained in the water. Drain the spaghetti when it is very al dente (keeping the cooking water aside to use later) and pour the pasta directly into the pan with toasted pepper ; it will continue cooking with the seasoning.

Stir the pasta continuously with the kitchen tongs to make it “breathe" and add a ladle of water or two if necessary, to continue cooking . Keep pouring a ladle of water only when needed (when you see that the pan is almost completely dry) and stir with kitchen tongs. In the meantime, when the pasta is ready, prepare the Pecorino cream (don't start this operation before because the cream would get too thick): pour about half of the grated Pecorino cheese into a bowl .

Add a ladle of cooking water to the grated Pecorino cheese . Stir vigorously with a whisk and add more water when needed. Then add the remaining half of the Pecorino cheese, keeping a little bit aside to garnish later . Add a little more water if needed: at this stage you will have to carefully adjust the amount of Pecorino cheese to the water to obtain a cream of the right consistency and without lumps.

Finish cooking your pasta, adding a little more hot water if necessary; before adding the Pecorino cream , briefly stir the cream by placing the bowl over the steam of the pan with hot water, always stir with the whisk , so as to bring the cream back to a temperature similar to the one of your pasta if necessary . Turn the heat off under the pan with spaghetti and pour in the Pecorino cream .

While pouring the Pecorino cream onto your spaghetti, stir it continuously with the kitchen tongs , pour the Pecorino you kept aside in too , stir and sauté the pasta again, then transfer your spaghetti cacio e pepe to a plate and season with the remaining pepper, enjoy immediately in all its creaminess !

We recommend eating spaghetti cacio e pepe immediately.
No form of storage is recommended.
It is important to use less cooking water than usual in the pasta (about half), because one of the important elements to make the heavenly "cream" and avoid lumps is to soak the spaghetti and Pecorino cheese with hot cooking water rich in starch.
If you prefer to test your abilities, our advice is to make half the amount so that it is easier to manage the ingredients of the cream with cheese.
For lovers of other shapes of pasta: you can also use mezze maniche pasta or rigatoni instead of spaghetti!
You can grate some lemon zest to “lighten” the Pecorino cream: purists won't get upset.

