name:
Veal stew with potatoes
ingredients:
Veal: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- fish
Potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)- to clean
Carrots: 1
Celery: 1rib
White onions: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Meat broth: 3 ¼cups(750 g)
Salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 2 ½tbsp(20 g)
White wine: 1.8oz(50 g)
Sage: 1sprig
Rosemary: 1sprig
Thyme: 1sprig

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 2 h 10 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
Veal stew with potatoes is a classic and timeless second course that brings all the warmth of home cooking to the table. It's a slow preparation that requires patience, but will reward you with a very tender and fragrant result. The veal meat melts in your mouth, and the potatoes absorb all the aromas, becoming a creamy and enveloping side dish. The result is a hearty but balanced stew, perfect to serve when you're in the mood for something comforting, perhaps on a cold day. It’s also perfect for being prepared in advance; in fact, it's even better the next day! As with every traditional dish, each family has its own recipe and secrets, but one thing is certain and common to all versions: sopping up the superb creamy sauce with bread! Here we propose our version of veal stew with potatoes, how do you prepare it?
If you love stew, try also:


To prepare veal stew with potatoes, first make the meat broth using our recipe and keep it warm. Clean and dice the carrot , celery , and onion into small cubes.
Clean the meat by removing any connective tissue, which are the tougher white parts that would become too hard when cooked. Then slice the meat and cut into small pieces . In a pot, preferably cast iron because it's suitable for long cooking times, heat a little oil and add the chopped carrots, celery, and onion . Sauté over medium heat for 5 minutes.
Add the veal pieces , season with salt and pepper , and cook, stirring continuously, to brown the meat on all sides. Sprinkle with previously sifted flour to avoid lumps in the cooking base.
Once the flour is absorbed by the meat, deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol evaporate completely. Cover with meat broth and add a bouquet garni: sage, thyme, and rosemary tied together with kitchen twine .
Cover with a lid and simmer over low heat for 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, peel the potatoes and dice them to the same size as the veal pieces.
Remove the bouquet garni and add the potatoes . Cover and cook, stirring occasionally, over medium heat for 1 hour, or until the potatoes and meat are very tender. Plate and finish with chopped rosemary. Your veal stew with potatoes is ready to be served hot !
Veal stew with potatoes can be stored in the refrigerator in a sealed container for 2-3 days. To reheat, we recommend doing so slowly in a pan with a spoonful of water or broth to prevent it from drying out. It can be frozen if you used fresh meat.
You can add peas to the stew by adding them to the pot in the last 10 minutes of cooking. The classic version is without tomatoes, but you can add a couple of tablespoons of tomato sauce or peeled tomatoes for a more rustic touch. For a stronger, fuller flavor, you can replace the white wine with a good red wine, preferably a robust one.

