name:
Mini pizzas
ingredients:
Water: 1cup(250 g)- at room temperature
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 1tsp(10 g)
Sugar: 3tsp(12 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: ⅓cup(60 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(15 g)
Tomato purée: 1 ⅓cup(350 g)
Mozzarella cheese: 0.5lb(250 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Oregano: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 25 min
Cook time: 15 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 3 hours of rising time

instructions:
A versatile recipe, for those who love to make their own pizza dough... perfect as a snack to take to school, as an aperitif or to enrich the buffet of a birthday party: pizza dough turned into red miniature pizzas ! Soft and tasty, seasoned with tomato, oregano and mozzarella. Rewarding to make and a pleasure to enjoy straight out of the oven, lukewarm or slightly heated! Find out how easy it is to prepare them and while the dough of your red miniature pizzas rises, think about a variety of toppings. It will be fun to make them and taste them all!
Discover more delicious Pizza recipes and elevate your cooking game!
To prepare red miniature pizzas , first place the flour in a bowl together with the crumbled fresh brewer's yeast . Add water at room temperature and stir with a wooden spoon .
Add sugar , salt and pour in oil .
Mix the ingredients thoroughly , then transfer to a work surface and knead vigorously until smooth.
Form a ball with the kneaded dough , oil a large bowl and place the dough in it, cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for about 3 hours at room temperature, away from drafts or in an oven with the light on. Once the dough has risen, it will have tripled in volume .
In the meantime, prepare the pizza topping: in a bowl pour the tomato, season with salt , pepper, oregano and oil . Mix everything with a spoon and set aside until you need to use it.
Transfer the leavened dough onto a pastry board and sprinkle with very little flour ; roll out with a rolling pin until you obtain a rectangle about 1/4-inch (4 mm) thick (17-18).
Oil thoroughly the drip pan where you will cook miniature pizzas. Cut the dough with a 3-inch (7.5 cm) diameter round pastry cutter . Take the excess dough , give it a round shape
and let it rest covered for about 10 minutes . You can knead any excess dough and make more pizzas: you will get a total of 24 miniature pizzas ! Take them one by one with a spatula and start placing them on the baking tray .
Once the miniature pizzas are on the tray, apply some pressure in the center, leaving a 1/4-inch (0.5 cm) edge. Cut mozzarella cheese into cubes
and season the center with tomato and mozzarella cubes , drizzle with oil and a pinch of oregano to taste. Bake the miniature pizzas in a static oven preheated to 400°F (200°C): the first 10 minutes with the tray on the lower shelf; the remaining 5 minutes on the top shelf. Once cooked , take out the red miniature pizzas and serve them hot!
Red miniature pizzas taste best hot, so it is advisable to eat them as soon as they are ready or slightly reheated.
Once leavened, the dough can also be frozen, better if already divided into portions and stored in a freezer bag. Later, you just have to defrost your portion at room temperature and continue according to the recipe.
If you prefer, you can also freeze the miniature pizzas half cooked: just bake them half-way, let them cool, then freeze them covered with aluminum foil; then just cook them, still frozen, at a slightly lower temperature than indicated in the recipe.
If you prefer, you can make your red miniature pizzas larger: for example, by using a 3.5-inch (9 cm) round dough cutter you will get about 18 miniature pizzas. Top with your favorite toppings.

