name:
Meatballs with tomato sauce
ingredients:
Beef: 0.5lb(220 g)- ground
Sausage: 0.4lb(165 g)
Breadcrumbs: 1oz(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: ¼cup(25 g)- grated
Eggs: 1
Parsley: 1tbsp- chopped
Oregano: 1pinch- dried
Nutmeg: 1pinch- ground
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Tomato purée: 1 ⅓cup(350 g)
Water: ¼cup(50 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Oregano: to taste- dry

info:
Difficulty: Very easy
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 24 pieces
Cost: Low

instructions:
We all have a favorite recipe, one that reminds us of a particular moment... whether it is sweet or savory. But there is a recipe that is almost universally loved, especially by children: meatballs with tomato sauce , the most nostalgic dish of them all!
Check out these recipes too:
Meatballs
To prepare meatballs with tomato sauce , start with the meat mixture: cut stale bread into pieces and place it in a mixer with blades and pulse until crumbly . Set the crumbs aside and remove the twine from the sausages,
cut them gently lengthways and finally remove the casing . Squeeze the meat out with a knife blade or a fork ,
then place it in a bowl together with the ground meat . Add oregano, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and chopped parsley . Finally, add grated Parmesan cheese and the breadcrumbs you made as well as an egg
and knead everything with your hands , adding salt and pepper and mix until you have obtained a homogeneous mixture .
Use this mixture to form little balls weighing 7 oz each , taking a piece of the mixture and shaping it with both hands: with our quantities, you will obtain 24 meatballs . As soon as all the meatballs are ready, heat some oil in a non-stick pan
and when the oil is hot, place the meatballs in the pan , cooking them on both sides for a couple of minutes . Pour in tomato puree
add water, season with salt and pepper , lower the heat and continue cooking for 15-20 minutes. Once ready, season with dried oregano and enjoy your meatballs with tomato sauce still hot !
You can store meatballs with tomato sauce in the refrigerator covered with plastic wrap for 2-3 days. You can also freeze them both cooked and raw, but in this case it is very important that the ingredients are very fresh and not thawed.

Another delicious variation? Fry the meatballs in a pan, cook the tomato sauce separately, then combine them: a real delight for your palate!
If you prefer meatballs richer in flavor , add a bit of aged pecorino cheese to the mixture.

