name:
Soft Focaccia
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(300 g)- at room temperature
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ½tbsp(20 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.1oz(4 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Water: 1tbsp(15 g)
Salt: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 6
Cost: Low
Note + 3 hours of rising

instructions:
Focaccia : a perfect snack! Fragrant, warm just out of the oven, it's impossible to resist a simple homemade focaccia . Today we suggest you bite into a soft focaccia, great on its own and even better accompanied with cured meats or grilled vegetables you can use to stuff it. If you are among those who love savory snacks, here is the recipe you were looking for to gather everyone at the table, ideal even for a picnic. We've chosen to flavor it in the most classic way: with rosemary and tasty salt flakes that will slowly dissolve and release a pleasant savory taste on the surface. We are sure that soft focaccia will be saved among your favorite preparations and, while you're at it, also try the mini version with the recipe for Soft flatbreads , or our recipe for high and fluffy potato focaccia !
If you are lovers of all kinds of focaccias also try:

To prepare the soft focaccia, first, crumble the yeast into the water at room temperature and stir until completely dissolved . Alternatively, you can crumble the yeast directly in the stand mixer. Pour the flour into the bowl of the stand mixer fitted with a dough hook .
Add the water with the yeast and start mixing at low speed. Add the salt and finally the oil in a stream .
When the dough is smooth and homogeneous, stop the mixer. This will take about 10 minutes . Grease the work surface with a little oil , then turn the dough out .
Knead it with your hands , just enough to shape it into a ball . Then transfer it to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Let it rise for 2 hours at room temperature.
After this time, take the risen dough , carefully grease a pan that is 2 inches high and 10 inches in diameter with oil . Place the dough in the center and spread it over the entire surface of the pan with your hands .
Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for an hour in the oven with the light on (at a temperature between 77°F-82°F). Meanwhile, prepare a brine by mixing the water with the oil .
After the rising time, take the dough and press the surface with your fingertips to create the typical dimples of focaccia , then distribute the brine and the salt flakes .
Add the rosemary needles and bake in a preheated static oven at 392°F for 40 minutes. Once cooked, take your soft focaccia out of the oven , let it cool slightly, then remove it from the pan and serve while still warm !
Soft focaccia keeps for 1-2 days in a paper bag.
It can be frozen once cooked and cooled, then thawed and heated when needed.
If you don't have a stand mixer, you can knead the dough by hand: it will take a little more time and elbow grease!
Once cooked, you can cut it in half and fill it as you like. For example, you can opt for cheese while it's still warm so that it melts, then add some prosciutto or cooked ham!
Don't have enough time? Try the recipe for Easy and Quick Potato Flatbread , perfect for an aperitif!

