name:
Fried panzerotti (calzone)
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(250 g)
Manitoba flour: 2cups(250 g)
Water: 1 ¼cup(285 g)- warm
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tsp(10 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.3oz(8 g)
Sugar: 1 ¼tsp(5 g)
Fine salt: 2tsp(10 g)
Fior di latte mozzarella cheese: 8.8oz(250 g)
Tomato purée: ¾cup(200 g)
Oregano: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 1spoonful
Fine salt: 1tsp
Vegetable oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 20 min
Makes: 8 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 2 h for rising

instructions:
To prepare the fried panzerotti, start with the dough: in a bowl, combine all-purpose flour and bread flour , then crumble in the fresh yeast and add the sugar .
Pour in half of the water and begin to mix with a spoon . Once the water is absorbed, add the salt .
Continue to pour the water little by little , stirring to allow it to be completely absorbed. At this point, work the dough with your hands and incorporate the oil little by little .
Transfer the dough to your work surface and continue to knead until you obtain a smooth consistency; this will take about 5-10 minutes . Once you've formed a dough that doesn't stick to your hands, shape it into a log .
Divide the log into 8 pieces, each weighing about 3.5 oz . Form balls by flattening the dough on the work surface and then bringing the edges together toward the center . Finally, round the dough with the palm of your hand to achieve a round shape .
Place the balls in an airtight container or cover with plastic wrap and store them away from drafts. Let them rise for 2 hours or until doubled in size. In the meantime, prepare the filling: in a saucepan, heat a drizzle of oil , then pour in the tomato sauce .
Season with salt , stir , and cook for 15 minutes over medium-low heat. Once the sauce is cooked, add the dried oregano for flavor .
Mix thoroughly and let cool. Cut the mozzarella first into slices and then into cubes .
Let the mozzarella drain in a fine mesh strainer to remove excess liquid . After the rising time, the dough balls will have doubled in volume , so start rolling them out on a lightly floured board with the aid of a rolling pin .
You should obtain a disc about 1/16 inch thick . Place 2 tablespoons of tomato sauce in the center , then add some mozzarella cubes .
Fold the top edge of the dough over the bottom one to form a half-moon . Make sure the edges match and press down well to seal the filling inside .
Trim the edges with a pastry cutter or a small knife . Proceed in this way to form all the panzerotti, then proceed with frying. Heat the vegetable oil to 330°F and immerse 1-2 panzerotti at a time .
As soon as it rises to the surface, gently turn it over and continue to cook, basting the surface with oil using a spoon . When beautifully golden, drain the fried panzerotti on paper and proceed this way with all the others. Your fried panzerotti are ready to be eaten while still hot and stringy !
It is recommended to consume the fried panzerotti immediately. If necessary, you can store them in the refrigerator for a day and reheat them in the oven before enjoying.
It is possible to freeze the uncooked panzerotti already filled and then fry them while still frozen.
The oil temperature must be constant and not exceed 330°F; otherwise, the panzerotti might burn on the outside and not be stringy inside.
The sugar gives the fried panzerotti a nice golden color, so it is recommended not to omit it.

