name:
Spaghetti with clams
ingredients:
Spaghetti: 0.7lb(320 g)
Clams: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Garlic: 1clove
Parsley: 1small bunch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste- for the clams

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + time to soak the clams

instructions:
To make spaghetti with clams , start by cleaning the clams. Make sure there are no broken or empty shells which have to be discarded. Then beat them against the sink or on a cutting board . This step is important to check that there is no sand inside: healthy clams will remain closed, while those full of sand will open. Then place them in a colander over a bowl and rinse them . Place the colander in a bowl and add plenty of coarse salt. Let the clams soak for 2-3 hours .
Once the time has passed, the clams will have purged any residual sand. Heat some oil in a pan . Then add a clove of garlic and, as the oil takes on flavor, drain the clams well , rinse them, and plunge them in the hot pan . Cover with a lid and let them cook for a few minutes over high heat .
The clams will open with heat, so shake the pan from time to time until they are completely open . As soon as they are all open, turn off the heat immediately, otherwise the clams will cook too much. Collect the juice by draining the clams, and do not forget to discard the garlic . In the meantime, cook the spaghetti in plenty of boiling salted water and drain halfway through the total cooking time of the spaghetti .
Then pour the sauce into a pan , add the spaghetti , and continue cooking using some cooking water. Your pasta will finish cooking in the pan. When cooked, add the clams and chopped parsley . Heat everything on high for a few seconds and the spaghetti with clams is ready: serve immediately !
We suggest eating spaghetti with clams right away, but if you wish you can keep it in the fridge for a day at most, closed in an airtight container. If you do not eat the clams immediately, you can store them in the refrigerator in a large bowl full of cold water or wrapped in a damp cloth.

Use very high quality clams to enjoy their excellent flavor and freshness! If you want a little color, add some tomatoes to the clams. Instead of black pepper you can try frying fresh chili peppers over low heat. Finally, we recommend you also try spaghetti n.5 or spaghettoni instead of spaghetti n.3!

