name:
Eggless Frittata
ingredients:
Chickpea flour: 0.8cup(100 g)
Aquafaba: ¾cup(180 g)
Water: ¾cup(180 g)
Potatoes: 0.75lb(350 g)
Yellow onions: 2.8oz(80 g)
Thyme: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 20 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low
Note + 10 min. of batter resting in the fridge

instructions:
To make the eggless frittata, first peel the potatoes and cut them into half-inch cubes , then rinse under running water and transfer to a bowl with cold water. Peel the onion and chop it finely .
Drain the canned chickpeas (or other legumes) from their cooking liquid, known as aquafaba . Pour the chickpea flour into a bowl along with a pinch of salt. Gradually add both the aquafaba and the plain water, stirring with a whisk to obtain a smooth and fluid mixture, without lumps . Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 10 minutes.
Heat some oil in a non-stick pan with a diameter of 8 inches , then add the potatoes and onions , and season with salt and pepper.
Cook for 10-15 minutes over medium heat until they are golden brown . At this point, give the batter a stir and pour it into the pan , slightly tilting it to distribute evenly. Lower the heat slightly and add the thyme for aroma .
Cook over medium-low heat for 5-6 minutes, then flip it using a plate or a lid and continue cooking on the other side for another 5-6 minutes . Your eggless frittata is ready to be served !
The eggless frittata can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze it after cooking and store it for up to 6 months. Let it thaw in the refrigerator.
You can flavor the chickpea flour batter by adding a pinch of turmeric, paprika, or curry: this way, you'll also get a more intense color!
Replace the thyme with other herbs of your choice, such as rosemary.
Also try the Savory bread and vegetable cake , a frittata-like dish made with stale bread, perfect as a waste-free recipe!

