name:
Meatloaf in a pan
ingredients:
Ground beef: 1.5lbs(700 g)
Sausage: 0.66lb(300 g)
Gruyere cheese: 3.5oz(100 g)
Rustic breadcrumbs: 1cup(80 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)
Eggs: 2
Chives: 1spoonful- dry
Parsley: 1spoonful- dry
Fine salt: 1tsp
Black pepper: 1tsp
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine: 3.4oz(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + chilling time in the fridge (10 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the meatloaf in a pan, combine ground beef and sausage in a bowl , then season with salt and pepper .
Now add the grated Parmigiano Reggiano , eggs , and dried parsley .
Flavor with dried chives and finally add the rustic breadcrumbs . Mix with your hands to combine the ingredients, then add the cubed Gruyère .
Continue to knead by hand in the bowl until you get a homogeneous mixture ; this step is crucial for good cooking results . Place the mixture on a sheet of parchment paper and shape a meatloaf slightly shorter than the diameter of your pan .
Wrap the meatloaf in the parchment paper , tighten well and seal by folding the ends underneath . Let the meatloaf firm up in the refrigerator for 10 minutes.
After the chilling time, heat the oil in a large pan , then carefully place the meatloaf and sear it on one side without touching it . With the help of tongs, turn the meatloaf to sear on the other sides ; it will take a total of 12 to 18 minutes.
At this point, deglaze with white wine and let the alcohol smell completely evaporate, then cover with the lid . Cook over medium-low heat for another 12 minutes. Your pan meatloaf is ready to be served with its delicious cooking sauce !
The meatloaf in a pan can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days. It can be frozen once cooked and cooled.
Before shaping your meatloaf, measure the diameter of your pan, keep in mind that the meatloaf should cook comfortably without touching the sides: if you are using a pan 8.5 inches wide, we recommend making it no longer than 8 inches.

