name:
Guinea Fowl and Grana Padano Stuffed Ravioli
ingredients:
Guinea fowl: ½
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 2oz(60 g)- to grate
Celery: 1rib
Carrots: 1
Shallot: 1
Meat broth: 2.1cups(500 g)- approximately
Brandy: 0.7tbsp(10 g)
Bay leaves: 2leaves
Sage: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Rosemary: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3- medium
Remilled durum wheat semolina: to taste
Butter: 2.8oz(80 g)
Grana Padano PDO cheese: to taste- for grating
Walnut kernels: 8

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 4
Note + preparation time for the meat broth, cooling time for the ragù, and resting time for the pasta (30 min.)

instructions:
To prepare the guinea fowl and Grana Padano stuffed ravioli, first, prepare the Beef Broth by following the instructions on our website and keep it warm. Then focus on the ragù: debone the guinea fowl , remove the skin , and cut 250g (approximately 9 oz) of meat into pieces about 2 cm (3/4 inch) .
Clean and chop the celery , carrot , and shallot .
Heat a splash of oil in a saucepan, add the guinea fowl , and brown for 5 minutes over high heat, stirring frequently . Then pour in the brandy and let it evaporate.
Add the chopped vegetables and sauté for a couple of minutes. Then pour in a ladle of hot broth and flavor with bay leaves .
Also, add the previously chopped herbs , lower the heat, and cook gently for 60 minutes, moistening with more broth if necessary. After this time, the ragù should be dry, so remove the bay leaves, salt, pepper , and let it cool .
In the meantime, prepare the fresh egg pasta: pour the flour and eggs into a bowl and mix the ingredients with your hands . Then continue to knead on a work surface until you get a smooth, elastic, and homogeneous dough . Wrap the dough in cling film and let it rest for about 30 minutes.
Once the ragù has cooled, add the grated Grana Padano PDO and mix well to incorporate it uniformly . Then transfer it to the refrigerator until ready to use .
After the rest time for the fresh pasta, use a pasta roller to obtain sheets with a thickness of 1-2 mm (1/32 - 1/16 inch) . Lay the sheets on a cloth dusted with a little semolina and space the filling mounds about 5 cm (2 inches) apart , then slightly moisten the edges with a brush .
Cover with a second sheet and press along the edges to seal them . Finally, cut out the ravioli with a pastry cutter with a diameter of 6 cm (2 1/3 inches) and place the ravioli obtained on a tray dusted with semolina ; with these doses, you will obtain about twenty.
When all the ravioli are ready, you can proceed with cooking: bring a pot of salted water to a boil and cook the ravioli for 3-4 minutes . In the meantime, melt the butter in a saucepan until it turns hazelnut brown .
Drain the ravioli and place them on serving plates , then drizzle with the hazelnut butter .
Finish with the aromatic herbs , walnut kernels , and a generous grating of Grana Padano PDO: your guinea fowl and Grana Padano stuffed ravioli are ready to be served !
It is recommended to cook the guinea fowl and Grana Padano stuffed ravioli immediately. Cooked ravioli can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day in an airtight container.
If desired, you can prepare the ravioli in advance and freeze them raw for up to 2 months, to be cooked directly from frozen.
For a more intense flavor sauce, you can add the aromatic herbs directly to the saucepan when melting the butter.

