name:
Lampredotto
ingredients:
Lampredotto: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Bread: 8- (sandwich rolls like michetta)
Salsa verde: to taste
Water: 17glasses(4 l)
Carrots: 2
Celery: 2ribs
Yellow onions: 1
Cluster tomatoes: 1
Tomato purée: 3cups(700 g)
Tomato paste: 4 ½tbsp(65 g)
Basil: 1bunch
Sage: 1bunch
Mint: 1sprig
Cinnamon powder: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Coarse salt: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 1 h 30 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average
Note EDITOR'S NOTE: for perfect results, we suggest buying the right piece of meat from a Florentine butcher.

instructions:
Peel the onion and chop it into coarse pieces, then peel 2 carrots, trim the ends, and chop them too. Do the same with the celery, then divide the tomato into 4 parts . In a tall and large pot, pour the vegetables for the broth , add 4 quarts of water, and turn on the heat; then add the lampredotto .
Add the tomato purée , tomato paste, coarse salt , ground pepper, dried oregano, and ground cinnamon .
Add the herbs (basil, sage, mint) . Stir and let it cook for about an hour, with the lid on. It will not be necessary to skim the broth. After the hour, cut each sandwich in half , then remove part of the crumb from the top .
Meanwhile, the lampredotto will be ready . Transfer it to a baking sheet or steel cutting board and cut it to mix the leaner part with the fattier part . Place some lampredotto on the sandwich base .
Season with a good pinch of salt, a dash of pepper , a teaspoon of green sauce , and if you like, a drizzle of spicy oil .
You can briefly dip the upper half of the sandwich in the broth before closing and enjoying your lampredotto sandwich !
It is recommended to consume the lampredotto sandwich as soon as it is ready.
Freezing is not recommended.
For an even tastier and richer broth, you can add a potato.
Don't miss the recipe for lampredotto risotto, a delicious twist!
Lampredotto, or abomasum, is the 4th stomach of the calf. In Florence, it is called lampredotto because the name derives from the lamprey, an eel that swam in the Arno, resembling its shape and aesthetic characteristics.
The lampredotto recipe is very ancient, dating back over 100 years.
It is a typical street food consumed in a sandwich, seasoned only with a pinch of salt, pepper, and, at most, spicy oil. Alternatively, with the addition of green sauce, as we have done.
Lampredotto consists of two parts: a lighter one, the spannocchia , rather fatty and flavorful, and a darker one, called gala , quite lean. The sandwich should contain both in balance, to be perfect.
We recommend purchasing lampredotto from a local butcher.
Luca Farina is the owner of " I' Baracchino " in Castellanza (VA), where he prepares lampredotto every day. A true Florentine, his lampredotto sandwich is special, served in the classic way with only salt, pepper, green sauce, and for those who wish, spicy oil. It is loved by customers, particularly for the genuine and sincere nature of the Tuscan gastronomic offerings and his naturally cheerful and friendly manner.

