name:
Bouillabaisse with Genoese focaccia
ingredients:
Scorpionfish: 1.3lbs(600 g)- (to be cleaned)
Sea bass (sea bass): 1.1lbs(500 g)- to be cleaned
Mussels: 0.9lb(400 g)- (to clean)
Clams: 0.9lb(400 g)- (to clean)
Red mullet: 2- (to clean)
Calamari (squid): 7.1oz(200 g)- small (to clean)
Shrimps: 5.3oz(150 g)- red (to be cleaned)
Scallops: 4
Potatoes: 0.7lb(300 g)
Onions: 1cup(150 g)
Celery: 1cup(100 g)
Carrots: 1cup(100 g)
Datterino tomatoes: ½cup(100 g)
Shallot: 1.75oz(50 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Tomato paste: 1tbsp(15 g)
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
White wine: 0.6cup(150 g)
Marjoram: 5tsp(5 g)
Basil: to taste
Lemon thyme: 1tsp(5 g)
Saffron threads: ¼tsp(1 g)
Star anise: 1
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Type 00 flour: 2 ⅓cups(300 g)- (W280)
Water: ¾cup(200 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.35oz(10 g)
Barley malt: 1 ¼tsp(6 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 1 ¼tbsp(20 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Water: 0.4cup(100 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: 4 ½tbsp(60 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Pistachio flour: 1.8oz(50 g)
Wild fennel: 1tsp(5 g)

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 2 h
Cook time: 2 h
Serving: 4
Cost: Very high
Note + the rising time of the focaccia (about 3 h)

instructions:
Start by preparing the Genoese focaccia: in a bowl, pour the flour, the malt , and half of the water . Start kneading with a fork; once the liquid is absorbed, add a little more water and the crumbled yeast .
Continue mixing, slowly adding the remaining water. Now add the salt and half of the oil , then start kneading by hand .
Once the oil is absorbed, transfer the dough onto the work surface , fold the dough by stretching it and folding it back on itself, gradually adding the remaining oil. When you have a smooth and homogeneous dough ball , cover it with the bowl and let it rest for 15 minutes at room temperature .
After the resting time, oil a baking tray and place the dough ball on it , then also oil the surface of the dough. Cover with plastic wrap and let it rise for 50 minutes at room temperature. After this time, spread the dough inside the tray with your hands .
It should cover the entire surface; if the dough is too elastic, cover it again with plastic wrap and let it rest for another 15 minutes. Once spread, the focaccia should rise for 2 hours in the turned-off oven with the light on. Meanwhile, prepare the brine: in a bowl, pour the water , the oil, and the salt .
Emulsify with a whisk. After the 2 hours of rising, spread most of the brine over the focaccia , being careful to keep some aside to spread after baking. Press the dough with your fingertips to form the characteristic holes .
Let it rise for another 15 minutes at room temperature . Bake in a preheated static oven at 464°F (240°C) for 18-20 minutes. Once baked, remove it from the oven and brush the surface with the reserved brine . Finally, cut the Genoese focaccia into strips and set it aside .
To prepare the bouillabaisse, start by cleaning the fish, being careful to keep all the scraps. How to clean the seabass : remove the head , cut along the back, and gut it, then fillet it , remove the bones, and cut the fillets into small pieces . How to clean the scorpionfish : remove the fins and head, fillet it , and remove the belly.
Also, divide the scorpionfish fillets into smaller pieces . Handle the red mullets: remove the head , cut along the back and open them to obtain the fillets , then remove the belly. Again, cut into pieces.
How to clean shrimp : remove the shell, leaving the head and tail, then extract the intestine and set them aside . Finally, clean the small squids, removing the internal cartilage and innards , then cut them into strips .
Prepare the fish stock: in a saucepan, pour a drizzle of oil and the garlic with the germ removed , add all the fish cleaning scraps , and the peeled and chopped shallot .
Also add the rest of the cleaned and chopped vegetables: the celery , the carrots , and the onion .
Finally, add the cherry tomatoes cut in half and brown everything for a few minutes. Deglaze with white wine , let it evaporate, then add the tomato paste .
Cover with water and stir to dissolve the paste , then season with aromatic herbs: basil, marjoram, and thyme .
Cover with a lid and cook over low heat for 40 minutes . At the end of cooking , strain the stock and keep it.
Proceed with cooking the fish: in a pan, pour a drizzle of oil, place the scorpionfish, red mullet, and sea bass pieces , and brown on both sides until golden . Remove them from the pan and add the red shrimp .
Sauté these too until golden and set them aside. Still in the same pan, sear the squid until golden , then set them aside.
Place the scallops in the same pan and brown them until golden . Set these aside as well. Handle the mussels: in a saucepan, heat a drizzle of oil, then add the cleaned mussels .
Cover with the lid and cook over high heat until they open . Do the same for the clams and cook just until they open .
Strain the cooking liquid from mussels and clams and keep it. Now peel the potatoes and cut them into 1/2-inch (1 cm) cubes . Blanch them for a few minutes and set them aside .
Now add 1 1/4 cups (300 g) of the mussel and clam cooking water to the stock , then return to the heat and flavor with saffron and star anise .
Finally, add the potatoes and continue cooking for 2-3 minutes. Everything is ready to assemble the dishes: place all the fish and shellfish on the bottom .
Cover with the stock and finish with basil leaves, wild fennel, and pistachio flour . Your bouillabaisse with Genoese focaccia is ready to be served !
It is recommended to consume the bouillabaisse immediately. If any remains, it can be stored in the refrigerator for one day.
The Genoese focaccia can be stored in a paper bag for up to one day.
Alternatively, it can be frozen once cooked.
The dough is not recommended for freezing when raw.
For an even more aromatic touch, you can finish your bouillabaisse with a few drops of Ligurian basil oil before serving: it will enhance the aroma of the fish and create a perfect balance with the crispy Genoese focaccia.

