name:
Pasta with pumpkin and amaretti
ingredients:
Mezze Maniche Rigate pasta: 11.3oz(320 g)
Delica pumpkin: 1.4lbs(650 g)- (to be cleaned)
Amaretti cookies: 1.1oz(30 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 1.8oz(50 g)- (to be grated)
Garlic: 1clove
Sage: to taste
Nutmeg: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 2tbsp(30 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pumpkin and amaretti pasta, start by cleaning the pumpkin: remove the seeds and inner fibers with a spoon , then peel with a sharp knife and cut the flesh into regular cubes about 3/4 inch (2 cm) ; you'll get about 18 oz (500 g) of cleaned pumpkin.
Heat a generous amount of oil in a large pan, add the garlic and sage leaves , and sauté over medium heat until the garlic is golden . Add the pumpkin and season with ground black pepper .
Salt and flavor with a pinch of nutmeg , then mix well .
Add some water to aid cooking. Cook for 10–15 minutes with the lid on , stirring occasionally, until the pumpkin is soft. Meanwhile, bring a pot of salted water to a boil for cooking the pasta. At this point, remove some pumpkin cubes for the final garnish , and discard the garlic and sage .
Mash the remaining pumpkin directly in the pan to obtain a coarse cream . If necessary, add a splash of pasta cooking water to adjust the consistency . Cook the pasta in boiling salted water .
Drain the pasta al dente and transfer it to the pan with the pumpkin cream . Add some cooking water to better blend the sauce , then mix with grated cheese and a drizzle of oil .
Plate by distributing the reserved pumpkin cubes and complete with freshly crumbled amaretti . For a finishing touch, add some chopped sage leaves. Your pumpkin and amaretti pasta is ready to be served !
Pumpkin and amaretti pasta can be stored for one day in the refrigerator.
We do not recommend freezing.
For a smooth and velvety cream, blend half of the pumpkin with a ladle of cooking water: the pasta will become even more enveloping and homogeneous.

