name:
Shrimp and Lemon Ravioli with Butter and Thyme
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.67cups(200 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- (about 2 medium)
Shrimps: 1.6lbs(720 g)- (to clean)
Cow's milk ricotta cheese: 1cup(260 g)
Lemon peel: ½
Thyme: 3sprigs
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Water: 4 ¼cups(1 l)
Leeks: 2.1oz(60 g)
Butter: 3tbsp(40 g)
White wine: 1.4oz(40 g)
Parsley: 4tufts
Butter: 5 ½tbsp(80 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 1 h 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average
Note + the resting time for the dough (30 min.)

instructions:
To make shrimp and lemon ravioli with butter and thyme, first clean the shrimp: remove the head and shell and set them aside , then cut the back and gently extract the black filament. Finally, roughly chop the flesh and set it aside; you will need about 9 oz of flesh and 16 oz of scraps.
Clean the leek by removing the end and the greener leaves, then cut it into thin slices . Proceed to prepare the stock: melt the butter in a saucepan , then add the leek and let it flavor.
Add the shellfish scraps and brown for a couple of minutes over high heat , then deglaze with the white wine .
Now pour the water to completely cover the shellfish , add the parsley, pepper, and moderately salt since the stock is already quite savory . Lower the heat and simmer for at least 60 minutes, removing the impurities that rise to the surface with a skimmer .
Meanwhile, prepare the fresh pasta: in a bowl, pour the flour and the slightly beaten eggs . Start mixing with a fork , then work the dough with your hands .
When you have obtained a homogeneous consistency , transfer the dough onto the work surface and continue kneading for about 5 minutes until you form a uniform dough. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for at least 30 minutes at room temperature . Meanwhile, you can prepare the filling: in a bowl, work the ricotta with salt and pepper, then flavor with thyme leaves .
Add the grated lemon zest and the chopped raw shrimp . Mix well to combine everything , then cover the bowl with plastic wrap and put it in the refrigerator until the pasta's resting time is over.
After the resting time, slightly flatten the dough with your fingers on the floured work surface , then roll it out with a pasta machine reducing the thickness little by little : you will need to obtain 2 rectangular sheets about 1/16 inch thick .
Distribute filling piles weighing about 1 oz on one of the sheets, spacing them about 1 inch apart. Brush the edges around the filling with a little water , then cover with the second sheet and press with your fingertips to seal and remove the air that would cause the filling to leak during cooking . Cut the ravioli with a 2¾ inch diameter round cutter .
Place the obtained ravioli on a slightly floured cloth . At this point, the stock will be ready, so strain it with a fine-mesh sieve : it should be reduced to about half of the initial liquid .
You are ready to cook: while bringing the stock to a boil in a pot, melt the butter in a pan with the thyme leaves , then add salt, pepper, and a ladleful of stock . Cook the ravioli in the stock for 4-5 minutes .
Once cooked, transfer them with a slotted spoon to the pan with the seasoning and briefly toss them . Scent with grated lemon zest and serve your shrimp and lemon ravioli with butter and thyme !
Once the ravioli are prepared, we recommend cooking them immediately, and once cooked, it is best to consume them immediately; alternatively, you can store leftover ravioli in the refrigerator for up to 1 day.
If you prefer, you can store the shrimp ravioli in the freezer for up to 1 month. You can proceed as follows: place the tray with the ravioli in the freezer for a couple of hours or until they are hardened, then place them in food-grade freezer bags. When you want to use them, remove the freezer bag from the freezer and cook them still frozen by dropping them directly into the boiling water or stock.
As an alternative to thyme, you can flavor your shrimp and lemon ravioli with parsley or rosemary.

