name:
Pan-seared Sea Bass with Sautéed Zucchini
ingredients:
Sea bass (sea bass): 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)- whole
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Thyme: to taste
Zucchini: 1.8lbs(800 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: 4tbsp(60 g)
Black pepper: to taste
Mint: to taste
Extra virgin olive oil: 3.7tbsp(50 g)
Parsley: to taste
Oregano: to taste
Lemon juice: 2tbsp(30 g)
White wine vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
Start by cleaning the sea bass: first, remove the scales by scraping the skin with the appropriate tool or the back of a knife, working from the tail to the head . Then, with scissors, remove the lateral and dorsal fins , then cut open the abdomen to remove the innards.
Remove the head and open the fish like a book by running a knife along the central bone, then gently detach the dorsal spine and main bones .
Trim the fillet by removing the thinnest and fattiest part of the belly to obtain an even surface. At this point, season the opened sea bass with a drizzle of oil and salt. Set it aside while you prepare the sauce. Chop the parsley .
Peel and chop the garlic clove . In a measuring cup, pour the extra virgin olive oil, white wine vinegar , and lemon juice .
Add the chopped garlic , finely chopped parsley , and dried oregano .
Add the salt and blend everything with an immersion blender until you get a creamy and homogeneous green sauce .
Then move on to the zucchini: cut them into thin slices and heat a pan with oil and a garlic clove. When the garlic is golden, add the zucchini and sauté over high heat for 5-7 minutes to brown them well. Season with freshly ground salt and pepper .
Finish with chopped mint leaves off the heat . Now heat a pan with a drizzle of oil and place the sea bass skin-side down . Press gently with a spatula to adhere the skin well. Cook for 8-10 minutes, depending on the size of the fish.
Let it cook until you achieve a crispy golden crust, then flip the sea bass, turn off the heat, and let it cook for another 5 minutes to ensure a gentle cooking. Arrange the plate: place the sautéed zucchini on the bottom of the serving dish and place the well-browned sea bass on top .
Generously brush the surface of the fish with the sauce , covering it evenly , and garnish with thyme leaves. The pan-seared sea bass with sautéed zucchini is ready to be served .
We recommend consuming the sea bass with its sauce right away.
You can store the sautéed zucchini and herb sauce in the fridge for a couple of days.


If you want a milder sauce, substitute the white wine vinegar with apple cider vinegar or a tablespoon of water: you'll get a lighter yet still aromatic salmoriglio.

