name:
Poke cake
ingredients:
Brown sugar: 0.8cup(180 g)
Eggs: 3.9oz(110 g)- at room temperature (about 2 medium)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(280 g)
Whole milk: 0.6cup(150 g)- at room temperature
Natural plain yogurt: ½cup(125 g)- (unsweetened) at room temperature
Butter: 3.5oz(100 g)
Vanilla bean: ½- (the seeds)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Milk Chocolate: 1cup(150 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.42cup(100 g)
Vanilla bean: 1- (without the seeds)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.4cup(100 g)
Milk Chocolate: 0.7oz(20 g)

instructions:
Poke cake is one of those desserts that just really stands out at any party or potluck. I mean, with a moist and super tender base, it's hard not to notice, especially when you see all those little holes filled with something sweet and rich. The fun part? It is all about how it's made—you use the handle of a wooden spoon to poke holes all over the baked cake, then pour in tasty fillings like chocolate ganache or fruity jello. And you know what? That’s where the name “poke cake” comes from! Folks in the US have been loving poke cake for ages, usually baked in a square pan so you can cut it into neat, brownie-sized bites.
There are all kinds of poke cake variations out there. Seriously, so many. From the classic jello poke cake with bright colors to the super-rich chocolate poke cake version. Some people even go wild and use Nutella or other creams for filling—giving you lots of ways to make this dessert your own. Across American homes, you’ll spot poke cake showing up in everything from birthday spreads to casual weekend meals. Why? Because it’s so easy and always looks impressive.
The real magic is in how the filling seeps into the cake—making every bite extra moist and full of flavor. Fans of simple cake ideas love how the fillings—like fruity jello, chocolate, or even creamy pudding—spread through the base, turning each piece into a little surprise. It’s the kind of thing that works great for anyone who’s into family-friendly desserts or wants a fun baking project.
Whether you pick a strawberry poke cake for a bit of color or stick with an easy poke cake recipe , there’s a version for everyone. And the whipped cream on top? Keeps things light and fluffy, and you can switch up the decorations however you want. For folks who like to experiment, there’s a world of homemade poke cake options just waiting to be tried, all with that special American twist that makes them perfect for sharing. Whether you’re a seasoned baker or just starting out, poke cake offers something exciting and delicious for everyone to enjoy. Really good stuff.
You might also like:
To make the poke cake, first melt the butter and let it cool. Now pour the sugar and whole eggs into a large bowl ; start whisking the mixture with an electric mixer and then, once it is smooth, add the salt .
Add the cooled melted butter and continue to whisk until you obtain a light and fluffy mixture, at this point incorporate the yogurt and the milk .
Keep the mixer going until all the ingredients are combined, then add the sifted baking powder and flour through a sieve . Mix with the mixer for a couple of minutes, until the batter is well combined. Finish by flavoring with the seeds of the vanilla bean .
Take a baking tray and line it with parchment paper, place a square bottomless mold of 8x8 inches on top, making sure to butter the inside edge. Pour the batter here , level the surface with a spatula and bake in a preheated static oven at 350°F for 30 minutes in the middle rack. Meanwhile, chop the chocolate for the filling .
Pour the fresh liquid cream into a saucepan and the vanilla pod emptied of its seeds , bring to a boil and then remove the pod .
Pour the hot mixture into the bowl with the chopped chocolate and stir until you obtain a smooth sauce which you will set aside. In the meantime, the base will have finished baking, take it out of the oven . If the center of the cake puffed up a bit during baking, don't worry, flip the cake and let it cool.
Remove the mold , then with the handle of a wooden spoon poke the cake to create 20 well-spaced holes. Fill the holes with the chocolate ganache using a pastry bag .
With a spatula, level the surface to remove the excess ganache . Now proceed with the decoration, pour the fresh liquid cream into a bowl, flavor with the remaining seeds of the vanilla bean and whip the cream with an electric mixer (make sure the beaters are clean) until it is nice and fluffy.
Cover the cake with the whipped cream , creating a wavy effect with soft strokes . Sprinkle the surface with finely chopped chocolate .
At this point, cut the cake first into 5 vertical strips and then into 3 horizontal ones to obtain 15 pieces. If you prefer, you can also make smaller cubes. Serve your poke cake !
The poke cake can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. You can freeze the base without filling and topping.
If you want a bolder flavor, flavor the ganache with a liqueur of your choice, such as Grand Marnier or Rum!
You can replace the butter with 80 g of vegetable oil.

url:
https://www.giallozafferano.com/recipes/poke-cake.html
