name:
Pan-Seared Salmon Trout
ingredients:
Salmon trout: 1.8lbs(800 g)- (4 fillets)
Cherry tomatoes: 2cups(300 g)
Taggiasca olives: 0.4cup(80 g)- pitted
Dry white wine: ⅓cup(80 g)
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Fennel: 0.9lb(400 g)
Oranges: 1.1lbs(500 g)
Lamb's lettuce: 4cups(80 g)
Parsley: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 15 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Low

instructions:
To prepare the pan-seared salmon trout, start with the cherry tomatoes: cut them in half and place them in a bowl along with Taggiasca olives . Season with salt, oil, and a garlic clove , mix and set aside for the moment.
Heat a drizzle of oil in a large non-stick pan and lay the trout fillets skin-side down . Cook over medium heat for 2-3 minutes, then slightly increase the heat and deglaze with white wine . Once the alcohol has completely evaporated, add the cherry tomatoes and olives mix .
Cover with a lid and continue cooking for another 5-7 minutes without turning the fillets. Meanwhile, prepare the fennel and orange salad: thinly slice the fennel , then peel the oranges and section them by cutting between the pulp and the white membrane with a sharp knife .
Combine the fennel and oranges in a bowl , then season with salt, pepper, and oil . Mix gently .
At this point, the trout will be cooked, so adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper. Turn off the heat and let it rest for a minute before plating . Distribute the lamb's lettuce at the base of the plate .
Place a trout fillet on top with its cherry tomato and olive sauce , then add the fennel and orange salad to the side . Finally, garnish with chopped parsley. Your pan-seared salmon trout is ready to be served !
The pan-seared salmon trout can be stored in the refrigerator for a maximum of one day in an airtight container.
If you wish, you can also add capers to the cherry tomatoes and olives mix for an extra kick of flavor!
To How to Clean Salmon Trout , you can consult the relevant section on our website.

