name:
Chicken soup with basmati rice
ingredients:
Basmati rice: ½cup(100 g)
Chicken breast: 10.6oz(300 g)
Carrots: 0.67cup(70 g)
Edamame pasta: 2.1oz(60 g)
Black sesame seeds: to taste
Sesame seeds: to taste
Peanuts: 0.1cup(10 g)
Coconut milk: 1cup(400 g)
Lemongrass: ½
Fresh ginger: 0.7oz(20 g)
Onions: ½
Garlic: 1clove
Cluster tomatoes: 5.5oz(150 g)
Powdered turmeric: 2tsp
Garam Masala: 1tsp
Fresh chili pepper: 1
Cumin seeds: 10
Coriander: 1sprig
Extra virgin olive oil: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To make the chicken soup with basmati rice, start by preparing the soup. Finely chop the onion , the lemongrass , the ginger , and the garlic.
Wash and dice the tomatoes . In a pot, pour the olive oil, the onion, the lemongrass .
Add the garlic and ginger and sauté until they are soft and golden. At this point, add the tomatoes . Let cook until the tomatoes have wilted (about 15 minutes over medium heat). When the tomatoes have wilted, pour in the coconut milk .
Season with turmeric , garam masala , chili pepper , and cumin.
Finally, add the cilantro and let it cook for about 30 minutes . Blend the soup with an immersion blender .
Strain the soup through a sieve . Put it back on the heat. The soup will be ready when it is creamy . While the soup is cooking, take care of the rice, place it in the basket of a steamer lined with parchment paper .
Spread it on the bottom , cover with the lid , and let it cook for about 10 minutes (if you prefer, you can cook it in boiling water). Once it's done , turn off the heat and drain it.
Cut the carrots into cubes of about 0.2 inches and boil them together with the edamame in salted water for 5 minutes , then drain them and keep them aside in a bowl .
Brown the chicken in a hot non-stick pan with a drizzle of oil , until it is well golden . Slice the chicken .
Everything is ready to plate: place the rice in the center of the plate and pour the soup around it , then sprinkle the vegetables and place the chicken on the soup. Season with lime juice and place sesame seeds and peanuts on the rice. Your chicken soup with basmati rice is ready to be served.
The chicken and basmati rice soup can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days. You can freeze the soup without the rice and chicken.
Garam masala is an Indian spice blend, if you can't find it you can recreate a basic mix by combining coriander, cumin, cinnamon, and black pepper.

