name:
Nutella Brioche Bread
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2cups(350 g)
Whole milk: ½cup(125 g)- at room temperature
Sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Butter: 2tbsp(30 g)- (softened)
Eggs: 1.9oz(55 g)- (about 1 medium)
Brewer's yeast: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: 1tsp(6 g)
Nutella: ½cup(150 g)
Egg yolks: 1
Whole milk: 3spoonfuls

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 45 min
Cook time: 25 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Low
Note + rising time (at least 2 hours in total)

instructions:
To prepare the Nutella brioche, start by pouring the flour, yeast , and sugar into a bowl. Mix with a fork, then add the lightly beaten egg and mix again.
Add half of the milk and the salt and mix again with the fork .
Finally, incorporate the remaining milk and continue kneading the mixture on the work surface. Add a piece of butter at a time , making sure to add the next one only when the previous one has been completely absorbed. Knead until you obtain a smooth and firm dough. Form a ball and place it back in the bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let it rise in the turned-off oven with the light on for at least an hour, or until it doubles in volume.
When the dough has doubled in volume , roll it out on a lightly floured work surface to form a rectangle of 9.5x15.75 inches . Spread the Nutella over the entire surface using a spatula, making sure to leave about 0.4 inches from the edge free .
Roll up the dough from the shorter side of the rectangle and place the roll obtained in a 9.8x4.3 inch loaf pan that you have previously lined with parchment paper, with the seam side down . Cover the mold with plastic wrap and let it rise in the turned-off oven with the light on for at least an hour, or until the dough has reached the edge of the mold .
After this time, brush the surface with the egg yolk and milk mixture , then bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F for about 20-25 minutes, placing the mold on the middle shelf. Once cooked, remove from the oven and let your Nutella brioche cool completely in the pan before removing it and slicing it!
The Nutella brioche can be stored for a couple of days in an airtight container or a food bag.
You can freeze it after baking and letting it cool completely.
If you prefer, you can replace Nutella with a jam of your choice!
Instead of dried yeast, you can use about 10 g of fresh brewer's yeast.

