name:
Argentinian Empanadas
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 1.7cups(210 g)
Water: 0.3cup(70 g)- warm
Lard: 1.75oz(50 g)
White wine vinegar: 0.6tsp(3 g)
Fine salt: 1pinch
Pork: 5.8oz(165 g)- to be finely chopped
Yellow onions: 2cups(285 g)
Red peppers: 5oz(140 g)
Hard boiled eggs: 1
Green olives: 0.75oz(20 g)- pitted
Extra virgin olive oil: 1tbsp(15 g)
Lard: 1tbsp(15 g)
Powdered cumin: to taste
Oregano: to taste- dry
Fine salt: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Sunflower seed oil: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 60 min
Makes: 18 pieces
Cost: Low
Note + 30 min. of dough resting in the refrigerator

instructions:
To make the Argentinian empanadas, start by preparing the dough: pour the flour onto a work surface and form a well, then add the lard , salt , and vinegar in the center.
Add the lukewarm water and knead with your hands until the mixture becomes smooth and homogeneous . Form a ball and let the dough rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, focus on the filling: clean the bell pepper and cut it into cubes , then do the same with the onion, making sure to cut it into cubes of the same size . Finally, finely chop the meat with a knife .
In a large saucepan, melt the lard with the oil , then add the onion and, after a few minutes, the bell pepper . Cook over moderate heat for about 10 minutes; the vegetables should reduce in volume by about half.
At this point, add the minced meat and mix well. Season with oregano and cumin , then adjust salt and pepper. Stir and turn off the heat.
Transfer the filling to a bowl, then add the chopped hard-boiled egg and the coarsely chopped olives . Mix to combine everything .
Retrieve the dough and roll it out to a thickness of 1/16 inch; you can use a rolling pin or a pasta machine . Cut out 18 circles with a pastry cutter with a diameter of 4 3/4 inches . If not using them immediately, you can wrap them in plastic wrap and store them in the refrigerator .
Place a dough circle on the work surface and add a tablespoon of filling in the center . Fold the circle in half and press the edges with your fingers to seal them , then make pleats to create the typical crimped edge . Alternatively, you can seal the edge by pressing with the prongs of a fork.
After forming the empanadas, heat plenty of seed oil in a saucepan to a temperature of 320°F. Fry 1 or 2 pieces at a time for 4-5 minutes . When they are golden, drain the empanadas and place them on paper towels to remove excess oil. Your Argentinian empanadas are ready to be enjoyed !
Argentinian empanadas can be stored in the refrigerator for one day and reheated in the oven before serving. If you wish, you can prepare the dough circles in advance, seal them with plastic wrap, and store them in the refrigerator for a day.
If you have used fresh ingredients, you can freeze the raw empanadas, taking care to cover them well with plastic wrap to prevent the dough from cracking. You can fry the empanadas directly from frozen, but it is advisable to also add a step in the oven to ensure that the filling is well heated.
Lard makes the dough particularly flaky and crispy, but it can be replaced with the same amount of butter, margarine, olive oil, or seed oil according to taste. The vinegar serves to give elasticity.
One of the most common variations includes adding raisins to the classic filling of meat, hard-boiled egg, olives, and cumin.
For baking, you can try cooking them at 375°F for 15 minutes, adjusting based on the characteristics of your oven.

