name:
Butterless Croissants
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 0.83cup(100 g)
Whole grain flour: 0.417cup(50 g)
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Water: 1.1cups(250 g)- at room temperature
Rice oil: 2.8tbsp(40 g)
Sugar: 0.3cup(60 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 2tsp(10 g)
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1tsp(5 g)
Vegetable margarine: 1.1cups(250 g)- (in stick)
Water: 1cup(100 g)
Sugar: ½cup(100 g)

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 25 min
Makes: 11 pieces
Cost: Low
Note more than 20 hours of resting and rising

instructions:
To prepare the butterless croissants, start by dissolving the yeast in room temperature water , then set aside for a moment. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a hook, pour in the all-purpose flour, Manitoba flour, and whole wheat flour . Add the sugar
and the water in which you have dissolved the yeast . Turn on the machine and work until you obtain an elastic dough. Then add the rice oil , the seeds from the vanilla bean .
Finally, add the salt . Work all the ingredients with the hook until you get a smooth, homogeneous, and well-bound dough . Transfer the obtained dough onto the work surface and quickly round it into a spherical shape .
Transfer it to a large bowl and cover with plastic wrap . Let the dough "rest" at room temperature for a couple of hours. After the maturation time at room temperature, transfer the dough to the refrigerator for 12 hours. Meanwhile, prepare the margarine. Cut it into 6 slices, then arrange them on a sheet of parchment paper, trying to form a square .
Place another sheet of parchment paper on top and use a rolling pin to even out the margarine to form a square block 7 inches by 7 inches, half an inch thick . Then store it in the refrigerator until use.
After the 12 hours of maturation in the refrigerator, take the dough and leave it at room temperature for 2 hours . At this point, roll it out on a lightly floured work surface until you get a rectangle measuring 14 inches by 8 inches . Place the margarine square in the center of the dough .
Fold the lower flap of dough over the butter block and then the upper one, so that it aligns with the other . Seal the two open sides with your fingers and roll out the dough again until you get a rectangle measuring 20 inches by 10 inches.
Give the dough the first three-fold by bringing the lower flap to the center and covering it with the upper flap . Cover the obtained block with plastic wrap, transfer it onto a tray , and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
Roll out the dough again on the lightly floured work surface (always until you get a rectangle measuring 20 inches by 10 inches) and give it the second three-fold, as just done . Cover the block again with plastic wrap and let it rest for another 30 minutes in the refrigerator .
After resting in the refrigerator, repeat the operation for the third and final three-fold . Cover the dough again with plastic wrap and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Then take it out and roll it out on a floured work surface to obtain this time a rectangle measuring 24 inches by 10 inches. With the help of a sharp knife, make triangles with a base of 4 inches .
You will get 11 . With a brush, slightly moisten the triangles . Then start rolling them up without pressing ,
so that the closure part ends at the bottom . Transfer them onto a baking sheet and let them rise for 2 hours at a temperature of about 77°F. Meanwhile, prepare the syrup: pour water and sugar into a saucepan , bring to a boil for a couple of minutes . Then turn off the heat and let cool.
After the rising time, gently brush the surface of the croissants with the obtained syrup . Bake in a static preheated oven at 375°F for 25 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool before serving !
The butterless croissants can be stored for one day under a glass dome. Once cooked and cooled, you can freeze them.
Alternatively, you can freeze the formed croissants raw, before the last rising: you can then take them out of the freezer, let them thaw overnight in the turned-off oven, and then brush them as indicated in the recipe. Then bake them as directed. Alternatively, you can also freeze them cooked.
Instead of rice oil, you can use hazelnut oil or other aromatic oils. Alternatively, you can use the same amount of margarine; in this case, you can leave it at room temperature until it becomes creamy before using it.

