name:
Gnocchi with cacio e pepe and crispy artichokes
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 2.2lbs(1 kg)
Type 00 flour: 2 ¼cups(300 g)
Eggs: 1- (medium)
Fine salt: to taste
Semolina: to taste
Pecorino Romano PDO cheese: 7oz(200 g)
Ground black pepper: to taste
Artichokes: 3- (to clean)
Rice flour: 3.5oz(100 g)- (super fine)
Peanut seed oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 60 min
Cook time: 40 min
Serving: 4
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the gnocchi cacio e pepe with crispy artichokes, place the potatoes in a large pot with plenty of cold water . You will need to boil them: when they start boiling, calculate 30-40 minutes of cooking time. To check if they are cooked, pierce one with a fork, and if you can reach the center, then you can drain them. Mash them while still hot on a work surface: if you use a potato masher, there is no need to peel them, as the skin will remain inside the tool . Spread them out slightly to create a well in the center, add a pinch of salt .
Pour the lightly beaten egg in the center , then pour the flour . Start working the dough with your hands ,
until you get a soft and compact mixture : knead as little as possible, just enough to achieve the desired consistency, this way you will avoid them becoming too hard when cooking. Take a bit of dough and roll it out to obtain a log about 0.5-1 inch thick , depending on how large you want the gnocchi. If the dough is slightly too soft, use some semolina to help you work with it. Cut the logs into pieces of about 0.6 inch ,
placing them on a tray covered with a semolina-floured towel, to prevent them from sticking to each other . Now, focus on preparing the artichoke chips: in a pan with high sides, heat the frying oil over medium heat. Clean the artichokes wearing gloves or rubbing your hands with some lemon juice to avoid them darkening. Remove the outer fibrous leaves , cut them in half, and also remove the internal fuzz .
Then cut them lengthwise into very thin slices . Pass them in rice flour , ensuring they are well coated, then place them in a sieve to shake off excess flour .
When the oil reaches 356°F, start frying the artichokes a few at a time for 3-5 minutes or until golden . Once ready, drain them on kitchen paper , being careful not to overlap them too much, and salt them immediately. Set them aside, and if you prefer, you can keep them warm in the oven at 266°F, in static mode.
For the cooking of the gnocchi and the sauce, start by bringing a pot of water to a boil. Once boiling, salt it slightly less than you normally would, as Pecorino is already very salty. Meanwhile, in a very large pan, toast the peppercorns for a few minutes over medium heat : when their aroma is released, then remove them from the heat and crush them coarsely in a mortar or with a meat mallet . Set aside a few whole peppercorns for decoration. Return the remaining crushed peppercorns to the pan and heat over medium .
adding a ladle of hot water . Now you can cook the gnocchi . They will only take a few minutes to cook: they will be ready as soon as they rise to the surface. While waiting for the gnocchi to cook, take about a ladle of cooking water and pour it into the bowl with the Pecorino .
Mix to obtain a fairly thick paste, with a consistency similar to pâté . When the gnocchi rise to the surface, drain them directly into the pan with the pepper , mix gently, then turn off the heat.
Add the Pecorino paste in several spoonfuls and start mixing very gently or, even better, toss them to melt and combine the cheese. You might need a bit more cooking water: add as much as needed to create a creamy sauce . Serve the gnocchi cacio e pepe immediately, topping them with abundant artichoke chips .
We recommend consuming the gnocchi immediately. Potato gnocchi can be stored raw, left on the towel for a couple of hours at most; in this case, cooking will be slightly longer because they will have dried in the air. You can also freeze the gnocchi, in this case, place the tray in the freezer and after about 20 minutes place the potato gnocchi in a food bag and continue this way until they are all frozen. To cook them, simply throw them into boiling salted water without defrosting them first.
For a more unique note, use Sichuan pepper: slightly balsamic and citrusy, it will give a unique touch to this dish!
For the gnocchi, we chose red-skin potatoes, but older, more floury ones or mountain potatoes will also work.
Gnocchi cacio e pepe with crispy artichokes are a great vegetarian dish for Christmas lunch!

