name:
Mimosa Roll
ingredients:
Eggs: 6- medium (at room temperature)
Sugar: 1cup(210 g)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Wildflower honey: 0.7tbsp(15 g)
Egg yolks: 5
Whole milk: 2.1cups(500 g)
Cornstarch: 8tbsp(65 g)
Sugar: 0.875cup(175 g)
Fresh liquid cream: 1.3tbsp(20 g)
Gelatin in sheets: 0.3oz(8 g)
Lemon peel: 1
Fresh liquid cream: 0.6cup(150 g)- to whip
Edible flowers: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Average
Note + 2 hours of resting time

instructions:
To prepare the mimosa roll, start with the sponge cake: pour the eggs, sugar , and honey into the bowl of a stand mixer. Turn on the machine and whip the ingredients with the whisk for about 10 minutes until you get a frothy mixture . Before stopping the mixer, make sure the mixture "writes", meaning it falls uniformly like a very light cream. Add the sifted flour all at once or in two parts if necessary .
Gently incorporate it into the mixture with a whisk or a spatula, with gentle movements from top to bottom, without rushing . Butter and line with parchment paper two baking trays: pour 500 g (about 2 cups) of batter into the 16x12 inch tray (this will be your roll) and 250 g (about 1 cup) into the 8x11 inch tray (this will be your decoration) . Smooth the surface with a spatula . Bake, one tray at a time, in a preheated static oven at 392°F for about 10-12 minutes until the surface is golden brown.
Remove the trays from the oven and flip them onto a sheet of parchment paper. Gently remove the top parchment paper, cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 1 hour. Meanwhile, make the custard. Soak the gelatin sheets in cold water for about 10 minutes. In a saucepan, heat the milk until it almost boils. In another saucepan, pour the egg yolks and sugar .
Immediately mix with a whisk until you get a homogeneous mixture. Add the cornstarch and mix until incorporated. Flavor with lemon zest .
When the milk is about to boil, pour a little of it into the egg yolk and sugar mixture and stir to temper. Then pour in all the remaining milk and stir again . Place on the stove over low heat, cook stirring for a few minutes, until you obtain a smooth and thick custard . Turn off the heat, transfer the custard to a possibly cold bowl.
In a saucepan, heat 20 g (about 1.5 tbsp) of fresh cream until almost boiling and turn off the heat. Squeeze the previously soaked gelatin and transfer it to the saucepan with the hot cream . Stir until it completely dissolves, then pour everything over the now cooled custard and mix well. Cover with plastic wrap and let cool in the refrigerator for 30 minutes .
Prepare a new sheet of parchment paper, flip the large sponge cake and gently remove the parchment paper . The lighter side should remain on the outside, while the darker side will be the one you fill with the cream. Temper the cream by working it with a whisk before using it to fill the sponge cake , spreading it evenly with a spatula .
With the help of the parchment paper, roll the soft sponge cake from the long side . Wrap it with plastic wrap to prevent it from drying out. Transfer the roll to a concave mold and let it rest in the refrigerator for about 60 minutes. Take the smaller sponge cake and remove the dark parts with a knife .
Cut it into strips first, and then into 1x1 cm (about 0.4 inches) cubes . Pour 150 g (about 5 oz) of liquid cream into a bowl and whip it with the beaters until stiff peaks form . Cover the surface of the log with the whipped cream .
You should cover it uniformly . Arrange the sponge cake cubes on the cream, pressing them lightly with your hands to make them adhere well . Finally, decorate with edible flowers; the mimosa roll is ready to be served .
It is possible to store the mimosa roll in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Alternatively, it can be frozen without the decorations for 2 weeks.
If you don't have a concave mold, you can wrap the roll in plastic wrap or foil so that it is well sealed and place it on a tray.

