name:
Kimchi
ingredients:
Chinese cabbage: 4lbs(1.8 kg)
Fine salt: 7tsp(35 g)
Daikon radish: 0.8lb(350 g)
Fresh scallion: 7oz(200 g)
Carrots: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Chinese garlic: 3.5oz(100 g)
Dried chili pepper: 2tbsp(10 g)- to chop
Rice flour: 3tbsp(25 g)
Brown sugar: 2 ½tbsp(30 g)
Water: 1glass(250 g)
White onions: 0.7cup(100 g)
Fresh ginger: 1.8oz(50 g)
Garlic: 2cloves

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 1 h 15 min
Cook time: 5 min
Makes: pieces
Cost: Low
Note + fermentation time (at least 1 week at room temperature or 2 weeks in the fridge)

instructions:
To prepare the kimchi, start with the napa cabbage: after washing it, cut it first into quarters and then into coarse pieces . Spread the cabbage on a tray and sprinkle with salt , mix and let it marinate for about 30 minutes. After this time, mix again and let it rest for another 30 minutes.
In the meantime, prepare the rice sauce: pour the water into a saucepan along with the rice flour and brown sugar . Stir with a whisk and cook over low heat until you obtain a gelatinous mixture .
Transfer the rice sauce into a bowl and let it cool to room temperature . Now focus on the rest of the ingredients: peel and slice the daikon first into slices and then into thin sticks .
Clean the spring onions and slice them into rings about 0.2 inches thick . Also, clean the carrots and cut them into strips . Finally, cut the garlic chives into pieces about 0.4 inches long .
Move on to the ginger paste: peel the onion and put it in a blender along with the peeled ginger and garlic cloves .
Blend until you get a smooth mixture . At this point, pour the rice sauce into a large bowl and add the dried chili pepper .
Add the ginger paste , the daikon , and the carrots .
Also, add the spring onion and the garlic chives , then mix with a spatula .
After the marinating time of the napa cabbage, rinse it under running water and drain it well. Pour the cabbage into a bowl and add the spicy vegetables . Mix with your hands to combine everything well .
Transfer the kimchi into a glass fermentation jar , add the weight if present in the fermentation kit, and seal it with the lid. Let it ferment for at least a week in a cool place away from direct light sources or in the refrigerator for at least 2 weeks . After this time, your kimchi will be ready to use !
Once the fermentation period has passed, the kimchi is stored in the refrigerator. The longer it is stored, the more the fermentation will continue, giving you a product with a more pronounced flavor.
Instead of garlic chives, you can use chives. If you can’t find napa cabbage, you can make a version with savoy cabbage; regular cabbage is not recommended.
If you are trying this type of preparation for the first time, we recommend tasting the kimchi after the initial fermentation period to evaluate the taste and decide the best time to consume it.
The ideal containers are those for fermentation with the specific lid or traditional fermentation jars, both available on the market.
• How many different types of kimchi are there?
It seems there are almost 200 varieties: besides the main ingredient (cabbage, cucumbers, daikon, radishes…), they also differ in the type of seasoning and preparation time.
• How is kimchi eaten?
It is perfect to accompany meat, fish, or rice dishes, but it is also used to prepare tasty soups and stews.
• Why is kimchi considered a healthy food?
It is rich in lactobacilli, essential for preserving the gut flora, as well as fibers, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants: moreover, Koreans eat kimchi daily, and it is no coincidence that they are among the longest-lived people in the world, as proven by several studies!
• What is Kimjang ?
It is one of the most typical and deep-rooted Korean traditions, the occasion when kimchi is collectively prepared in large quantities with the help of family, friends, and neighbors to store and consume it throughout the winter.

