name:
Luna-Park Fritters
ingredients:
Manitoba flour: 4cups(500 g)
Sugar: ¼cup(50 g)
Fresh brewer's yeast: 0.5oz(15 g)
Butter: 7tbsp(100 g)- (at room temperature)
Milk: 1.3cups(310 g)
Lemon peel: 2
Vanilla bean: 1
Fine salt: 1 ¾tsp(10 g)
Sugar: to taste
Vegetable oil: 4 ¼cups(1 l)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 15 min
Serving: 10
Cost: Low
Note + 2 and a half hours of rising

instructions:
To prepare the Luna-Park fritters, start with the dough. First, pour the flour , sugar , and grated lemon zest into the bowl of a stand mixer.
Also add the vanilla bean seeds . Start mixing with the hook attachment and pour in part of the milk . Add the crumbled yeast .
Then add the remaining milk . Mix for a few minutes, then add the salt and wait for it to be fully absorbed. When the dough is well-bonded, add the butter. This step is crucial, add a piece at a time , waiting for it to be fully absorbed before adding more .
Wait for the dough to bond again with the hook , then gently remove it with your hands and transfer it to a surface .
At this point, give the dough a slap & fold: lift it gently and fold it back over itself while stretching it . Then slide your hands underneath and round it, obtaining a spherical shape . Transfer into a bowl, cover with plastic wrap .
Let it rise for 2 hours until it doubles in size . Transfer the dough onto a floured surface and form a loaf .
Using a dough cutter, cut pieces weighing about 95g . Shape them into balls and place them on a tray lined with a cloth .
Let rise again for 30 minutes, also sprinkling a little flour on the surface and covering with a cloth . When there are just a few minutes left in the rising time, pour the oil into a large saucepan and heat it to 340°F (measured with a kitchen thermometer). When the oil is hot, take the first ball and begin to stretch it in your hand to create a thick rim, leaving the center thick and transparent between the center and edge . It should have a diameter of about 8 inches. Immerse the fritter in the hot oil , trying to cook one at a time.
The fritter should turn golden slowly, use a skimmer to keep it submerged in the oil and to flip it . When it is well golden, drain it and place it on a tray with paper towels. Remove just the excess oil .
Then pass it, still hot, in the sugar , on both sides . Continue cooking the Luna-park fritters in this way and serve them while they are still warm .
We recommend serving the Luna-Park fritters immediately! Storing them won't keep the same fragrance and crispness.
You can also flavor the dough with cinnamon.
To determine if the oil is at the right temperature when you don't have a kitchen thermometer, you can immerse a small piece of dough. If it colors slowly and puffs up immediately, the oil is ready; if it darkens quickly, it means it's too hot.
Luna-Park fritters are also perfect as Carnival fritters!

