name:
Pumpkin and speck lasagna
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 2 ½cups(300 g)
Eggs: 3
Fine salt: to taste
Pumpkin: 2.6lbs(1.2 kg)- (700 g of cleaned pumpkin)
Speck: 5.3oz(150 g)
Onions: ⅓cup(50 g)
Parmigiano Reggiano PDO cheese: 2.1oz(60 g)- (to grate)
Sage: 1bunch
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Black pepper: to taste
Whole milk: 2 ½cups(600 g)
Taleggio cheese: 5.25oz(150 g)
Type 00 flour: 0.4cup(50 g)
Butter: 3 ½tbsp(50 g)
Salt: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Very difficult
Prep time: 40 min
Cook time: 50 min
Serving: 8
Cost: Average

instructions:
To prepare the pumpkin and speck lasagna, start with the egg pasta: pour the flour onto the work surface , form a well, and add the eggs in the center . Season with a pinch of salt .
Break the eggs with a fork and incorporate them into the flour . Work with your hands until you obtain a smooth and homogeneous dough . Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and set aside.
Move on to the taleggio béchamel: heat the milk in a saucepan and melt the butter in a separate pot . Add the flour to the melted butter all at once and mix quickly with a whisk .
When the roux has formed, pour in the hot milk and blend well with the whisk to avoid lumps . Let the mixture thicken over low heat, stirring continuously, then turn off the heat and add the taleggio in chunks .
Set the béchamel aside, covered with plastic wrap in contact with it . Now heat the oil in a pot, add the sliced onions and the speck cut into strips. Cook over medium heat for about 2-3 minutes .
When the speck is crispy, add the diced pumpkin . Season with salt, chopped sage , and a grind of black pepper . Cook over medium heat for about 10-15 minutes, until the pumpkin is tender.
Take the dough and roll it out first with a rolling pin , then pass it through a pasta machine until you obtain sheets 2 mm thick . Cut the sheets to obtain rectangles the same size as the baking dish ; we used a dish measuring 10x7.5 inches.
Boil the pasta rectangles for about 2 minutes in boiling water , then drain them into a bowl with ice water to stop the cooking . Finally, place the sheets on a tea towel .
You are ready to assemble the lasagna: spread a light layer of béchamel on the bottom of a baking dish , then place the first pasta rectangle . Cover with more béchamel and distribute the pumpkin and speck mixture .
Sprinkle with grated Parmigiano Reggiano and start again with another layer of pasta , continuing this way until all the ingredients are used . You should have a total of 5 layers.
Finish with plenty of grated cheese and bake the lasagna in a static oven at 350°F for about 30-35 minutes or until the surface is nicely golden . Remove from the oven and let it rest for a few minutes before serving your pumpkin and speck lasagna !
Pumpkin and speck lasagna can be stored in the refrigerator for 1-2 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze them once cooked and completely cooled.
If you prefer, you can substitute taleggio with fontina or a semi-aged toma cheese.

