name:
Drip cake
ingredients:
Type 00 flour: 4cups(500 g)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
White chocolate: 1.1cups(200 g)
Butter: 1.1cups(250 g)- soft
Whole milk: ¾cup(200 g)- at room temperature
Eggs: 4oz(110 g)- (about 2 at room temperature)
Baking powder: 3 ½tsp(16 g)
Vanilla extract: ½tsp
Dark chocolate 55%: 8.8oz(250 g)- (small chips or chopped)
Fresh liquid cream: 1 ½cup(350 g)
Raspberries: ½cup(70 g)
Butter: 14.1oz(400 g)- soft
Powdered sugar: 2.4cups(300 g)
Grappa: 1.5oz(40 g)
Dark chocolate 55%: 7oz(200 g)- (small chips or chopped)
Fresh liquid cream: 0.8cup(200 g)
Butter: 2 ½tbsp(35 g)
Raspberries: to taste
Blackberries: to taste
Meringues: to taste

info:
Difficulty: Difficult
Prep time: 1 h 30 min
Cook time: 45 min
Serving: 12
Cost: Average
Note plus cooling times

instructions:
To prepare the drip cake, first of all, make the base dough. Melt the white chocolate and let it cool slightly. In the bowl of the mixer, pour the granulated sugar, soft butter, vanilla extract , and work with the whisk for about 1 minute. Turn off the mixer and add the eggs . Work the mixture until the eggs are completely absorbed, then add the white chocolate, now lukewarm .
Work the mixture for a few seconds with the whisk, then add the flour and the baking powder . Work the mixture again with the whisk and pour in the room-temperature milk slowly .
and work for another 2 minutes, until you get a smooth and homogeneous mixture . Then pour the batter into 3 pans of 7 inches, previously lined with parchment paper, and bake in a preheated static oven at 356°F on the center rack for 45 minutes. If the 3 pans cannot be placed in the oven together, you can bake 2 first and leave the other one at room temperature. Meanwhile, prepare the ganache. Whip the 0.42 cups of cream and keep it in the fridge until use.
Pour the remaining cream into a small pot and bring to a boil. Pour the raspberries into a high-sided container and blend with a hand blender until you obtain a puree. Transfer the chocolate to a bowl, and as soon as the cream starts to boil, pour half of it over the chocolate .
Stir with a whisk and then pour the remaining hot cream . Mix the mixture until the chocolate is completely melted .
Pour the raspberry puree into the ganache , mix well with a whisk , then blend lightly with a hand blender without incorporating air .
Cover with plastic wrap and let it cool to room temperature . Now take care of the coating. Bring the cream to a boil in a small pot and pour it over the chocolate, which you have placed in a bowl . Mix the mixture well until the chocolate is completely melted .
and add the butter . Mix well until it is melted . Cover with plastic wrap and keep at room temperature until use. As soon as the three cakes are ready, remove them from the oven and turn them out onto a wire rack ; this will allow them to cool more quickly. Let them cool for an hour at room temperature and an hour in the refrigerator.
Prepare the buttercream. Pour the soft butter and powdered sugar into the bowl of the mixer . Work for about 1 minute with the whisk, then also add the grappa . Turn on the mixer again and work the cream with the whisk for about 5 minutes, obtaining a smooth, frothy, and glossy mixture . Keep aside at room temperature until use.
Then take your bases. Trim with a serrated knife along both the surface and the base . Perform this operation for all 3 cakes .
Take the raspberry ganache and work it with a whisk . Gradually add the whipped cream and mix gently until you obtain a homogeneous cream.
Transfer the buttercream into a pastry bag with a 0.4-inch nozzle . Position one of the cakes as a base on a work plate. To avoid dirtying it, you can place a sheet of parchment paper between the cake and the plate. Create a border with the buttercream around the entire circumference of the cake , put some of the chocolate and raspberry ganache in the center
and spread it with a spoon . Place the second layer of white chocolate cake on the cream and fill it as you did for the first layer . Finish by placing the last disc of white chocolate cake .
Cover the surface with the remaining ganache, leveling it well . Then, using the spatula, level the edges of the cake well and let it cool in the refrigerator for 15 minutes. Then, take the cake from the refrigerator and spread some buttercream on the edges of the cake .
Level well with a spatula , then cover the surface as well and level again with the spatula. The cake should be completely covered with buttercream. Let it cool in the refrigerator for 1 hour. At this point, heat the coating cream for a few moments, and using a teaspoon, create the drip effect by pouring some sauce all around the outer edge . Make sure some drops go down more than others by pouring a different amount of ganache.
Then cover the surface with the leftover ganache for coating and gently level it with a spatula . Decorate the surface with raspberries and blackberries, finishing with a few small meringues . The drip cake is ready to be served.
You can store the drip cake in the refrigerator for 3 days.
We recommend leaving the cake at room temperature for 30 minutes before serving it.


