name:
Blackberry Jam
ingredients:
Blackberries: 4.4cups(1 kg)
Sugar: 1 ½cup(300 g)
Lemons: 2- (juice and zest)

info:
Difficulty: Easy
Prep time: 10 min
Cook time: 30 min
Serving: 25
Cost: Average
Note + the maceration time (at least 24 hours) and sterilization of the jars

instructions:
To prepare the blackberry jam, first make sure you have new lids and sanitized jars (following the guidelines from the Ministry of Health provided at the end of the recipe). Wash and gently dry the blackberries, then place them in a large bowl and add the lemon zest and juice . Also add the sugar .
Mix well to combine everything , then cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it macerate in the refrigerator for at least 24 hours.
After the maceration time, the blackberries will have released their juice so transfer everything into a saucepan and cook over medium-low heat until the mixture reaches a temperature of 226°F, measured with a kitchen thermometer .
Transfer the hot jam into the previously sanitized jars using a funnel and seal them tightly by screwing on the lid . Turn the jars upside down and let them cool completely, then check that a vacuum has been created: if the lid in the center makes a click-clack sound, it means that a vacuum has not been created and the jam cannot be consumed. Let the blackberry jam rest for at least one night before using it .
The blackberry jam can be stored in the pantry for about 3 months, away from sources of light and heat. Once opened, keep the jar in the refrigerator and consume the jam within 3-4 days at most.
If you like, you can add a spicy note to the blackberry jam by adding freshly grated ginger.
Do you have plenty of blackberries? Take advantage of it to also prepare our Blackberry and yogurt cake !
Homemade preparation of preserves and jams may pose health risks. In a domestic environment, it is not possible to create the necessary conditions and measures to ensure the safety and suitability of the food, which industrial procedures can assure to prevent dangerous contamination. It is therefore important to strictly follow food safety guidelines to reduce risks, but one must always bear in mind that the same food safety as professional preserves and jams cannot be achieved. For proper preparation of homemade preserves we refer to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health .
. How can I wash the blackberries without damaging them?
Blackberries are quite delicate, we recommend washing them only shortly before use by rinsing them under running water and gently drying them with a cloth.
. Can I use less sugar?
We recommend following the indicated proportions to achieve the right yield, both in terms of taste and texture.
. Which blackberries are best for jam?
It is best to use fresh seasonal fruits picked in the summer.
. Foam forms during cooking, is it normal?
The foam is formed by the impurities of the fruit that emerge during cooking and it is advisable to remove it with a skimmer to make the jam shinier and clearer.
. If I don’t have a thermometer, how can I tell when the jam is ready?
Check the consistency with the saucer test: pour a teaspoon of jam on a saucer, if the mixture flows, it means that the jam needs to cook longer; if it remains firm, it is ready.

