name:
Pumpkin gnocchi with Grana Padano, red cabbage and speck
ingredients:
Red potatoes: 0.8lb(380 g)
Delica pumpkin: 1.5lbs(690 g)- whole
Eggs: 2oz(58 g)- (approximately 1)
Type 00 flour: 1 ¼cup(150 g)
Fine salt: to taste
Red cabbage: 14.1oz(400 g)
Speck: 3.5oz(100 g)
White wine vinegar: 2tbsp(30 g)
Garlic: 1clove
Extra virgin olive oil: to taste
Grana Padano PDO cheese: 1 ¾cup(150 g)- (Aged over 20 months) grated
Black pepper: to taste
Thyme: 4sprigs
Fresh liquid cream: ¾cup(180 g)

info:
Difficulty: Average
Prep time: 50 min
Cook time: 60 min
Serving: 4

instructions:
To prepare pumpkin gnocchi with Grana Padano, red cabbage, and speck, start by boiling the potatoes in plenty of salted water for 30-40 minutes depending on their size : they should be soft but not falling apart, to avoid absorbing too much water. You can test their cooking by pricking them with a fork, if you can easily pierce them it means they are cooked. If you prefer, you can also choose to bake the potatoes whole and with the skin, so they lose excess water and then scoop them out with a spoon to obtain the pulp useful for the recipe. You can let them cool once ready. While the potatoes are cooking, take the pumpkin, remove the seeds and skin and cut it into slices . Place them on a baking sheet covered with parchment paper. Bake them in a fan oven at 350°F for 20 minutes until they start to dry slightly. This way, the pumpkin will dry out and not release water during the preparation of the gnocchi (you will obtain about 12 oz of cooked pumpkin).
After the required time, turn off the oven and take out the pumpkin . Sift the flour onto a work surface , mash the potatoes in the center creating a well in the flour .
Also pass the pumpkin through a potato masher and pour the puree onto the dough . Add the egg , salt, and knead to obtain a compact dough ball .
Take a portion of dough and form a log, cut it into small bites about 1.5-2 cm (0.6-0.8 inches) in size . Repeat the operation until all the dough is used. Now, roll the gnocchi one by one over the tines of a fork or a gnocchi board to give them the typical grooves . Place the gnocchi on a floured cloth .
Finely chop the red cabbage . In a pan, heat a drizzle of oil with a clove of garlic, then add the cabbage and cook for about 5 minutes. Deglaze with the vinegar and let it evaporate.
Salt, pepper, and continue cooking for another 5 minutes. At the end of cooking, remove the garlic . Cut the speck into thin strips . In another pan, sauté the speck for a few minutes.
Just enough time to make it crispy . Meanwhile, place a pot full of water on the stove and salt it when it boils, it will be used to cook the gnocchi. While the water boils, prepare the Grana sauce: heat the cream in a small saucepan , then pour in the grated Grana Padano DOP . Cook over moderate heat, stirring until the cheese has completely melted.
Blend the sauce with an immersion blender to make it more fluid . Flavor with thyme leaves and pepper. Now cook the gnocchi for a few minutes.
Meanwhile, transfer the Grana Padano sauce to a large pan ; as the gnocchi rise to the surface, drain them directly into the pan with the sauce . Now add the sautéed red cabbage .
Stir to combine and serve the gnocchi garnishing the plates with crispy speck .
It is preferable to consume the pumpkin gnocchi, speck, and red cabbage just cooked. If any remain, place them in an airtight container, then store them in the refrigerator for a maximum of 1 day. Pumpkin gnocchi can also be frozen if you have used only fresh and not defrosted ingredients: put the pumpkin gnocchi in the freezer, laid out on a tray, and after a few hours, when they are frozen, remove them from the freezer and place them in a freezer bag. This way, you will avoid the pumpkin gnocchi sticking together during the freezing process.
Besides Delica pumpkin, you can also use violina and mantovana pumpkins to make gnocchi: their pulp is, in fact, not very watery and very flavorful!

